There is spectacular amounts of
volatility.
>> It feels like we should kind of sit on
the sidelines for a moment here.
>> The market is looking for just what the
off-ramp could be.
>> This doesn't feel like the beginning of
a great year.
>> Eventually, that volatility will create
great buying opportunities.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning
for our audience right now. Coming into
Tuesday following crude volatility.
This was just an excursion into
something
that had to be done. During this brief
disruption, we're way ahead of schedule
and it's going to be ended soon.
And if it starts up again, they'll be
they'll be hit even harder. The
president's verbal intervention slamming
the brakes on a major oil rally even as
key producers across the Middle East are
continuing to cut output and Iran's
military is showing little sign of
looking for an off-ramp. We begin this
hour following a wild swing in crude
from almost 120 at the highs before
plunging into the '80s at the lows. One
line from the president whipsawing
investors, I think the war is very
complete, pretty much. The verbal
intervention capping energy markets. The
reality on the ground curbing some of
the enthusiasm. Across Saudi Arabia,
UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq, oil production
cuts are totaling about 6.7 million
barrels per day. The squeeze on supply
continues.
>> My question is how tradeable is this
market? As you mentioned on the
fundamental standpoint, that's about 6%
of the overall market supply in the
world. That is a significant hit. At the
same time, people can look past that if
they can understand some sort of forward
trajectory. Well, good luck with that
when it can be dictated by a single
comment.
>> Amanessa.
Saudi Aramco. This quote right here.
I've spoken to Amin in the past, pretty
conservative guy. Not the kind of guy
that makes things sound more dramatic
than they actually are. This one by far
is the biggest crisis the region's oil
and gas industry has ever faced.
>> Yeah, and he goes on to say there would
be catastrophic consequences for the
world to oil market the longer the
disruption goes on. So, once again, this
is about the timeline, not necessarily
just the production output cuts right
now, which goes to the statements that
are whipsawing markets in record form.
At what point can you get a sense of an
off-ramp until there is real policy
behind it?
>> Just go through three things piece by
piece in the last 24 hours. Direct
verbal intervention from the president,
we saw the G7 finance ministers open to
releasing reserves. A report from
Reuters that the White House is
considering a range of offsets as well,
and a vague throwaway line about
sanction relief as well. But, what have
we actually done? The answer to that is
not a lot. Which is the reason why I
think there is some skepticism. And
again, it goes back to how much
conviction can any trader have when you
have a $36 swing in Brent crude in one
day, the second biggest on record. You
start looking at those types of swings,
you start looking at the fact that
Millennium, Breliant, and Point72 have
all suffered massive losses. You think
about momentum bets that have been
stopped out. At this point, this is a
difficult market to get conviction in,
and that's the reason why even if there
are statements that sound good, you are
not going to get the stability that so
many investors are looking for. They're
looking for stability in the equity
market. Equity futures right now in the
S&P positive by about 2/10 of 1%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Nate
Thurst of Manulife with markets
whipsawed by geopolitics. Stephen Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations is
the president's take on an early end to
the war, and Stephen Schork of the
Schork Group following crude's biggest
intraday swing on record. We begin this
hour with our top story. President Trump
saying the Iran war's objectives are
nearly complete, and the war could be
resolved very soon. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
more. Tyler, good morning.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump is suggesting an early end to the
war, but cautioned that it's not over
yet. The president maintains that the US
is ahead of schedule in achieving its
military objectives, but went on to say
he doesn't think that the conflict will
resolve this week. He says the US
military campaign will not stop until he
is satisfied that Iran will not be able
to obtain a nuclear weapon saying in
part quote, "The US has won in many
ways, but it hasn't won enough." Now,
the president did also threaten to
expand the list of military targets to
electricity infrastructure if
disruptions through the Strait of Hormuz
continue. He reiterated the US Navy
stands prepared to escort tankers
through the critical waterway, which
remains effectively shut with no
finalized plans for nations to safeguard
ships. And new this morning, Bloomberg
News now reporting that it appears
electronic warfare is jamming signals in
the strait as oil remains top of mind.
As you mentioned, the president
mentioned yesterday that we could see
some oil-related sanction waivers,
though he didn't provide many details
beyond saying that he discussed the
possibility in a phone call yesterday
with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
John, people familiar with the matter
tell us here at Bloomberg News that the
administration has been mulling several
potential options to help out with
prices in recent days, including a
potential federal gas tax holiday or
even dipping in to emergency reserves. I
will point out we got a statement
yesterday after President Trump's
comments from the IRGC maintaining that
it will continue to block oil exports
until the US stops attacking Iran. Tana
Kakef with the latest. Tana, thank you.
There's a story I often tell about
August 2019 when the president of the
United States, you know I'm going, don't
you? When the president pretended he had
a call with the Chinese.
And it was always about the signal and
not about the substance because for a
lot of people that meant the president
was looking for an off-ramp. It wasn't
about whether the call had happened or
not. The Chinese never verified the
call. And I wonder how similar things
are this time around. The difference
between the signal and the substance.
The signal is for many people in this
market right now, they believe the
president is looking for some kind of
off-ramp to confront this massive move
in the energy market. The problem with
this, unlike the tariffs where the
president was in almost total control,
this isn't just about the US. It's also
about Israel, and it's also about Iran.
And to sit here and say things going to
end soon
takes more than one person to say things
going to end soon. At the same time, I
think people are just trying to get into
the mind of President Trump and hope
that that's enough, but you're
absolutely right, it's not. Let's get to
the view on Wall Street this morning.
Nate Thorth of Manulife writing we could
see economic growth diminish if policy
uncertainty increases. Corporate profit
margins get crimped due to higher energy
input costs, and higher gas prices will
act as a consumer tax. Nate joins us now
for more. Nate, good morning. Thanks for
having me. What is the price for all
this volatility?
I mean, I think the reality is we have a
bigger pogo stick going on, right? We
have a lot of up and down, and we don't
have a lot of forward traction, and the
uncertainty is very, very high. I think
the price is that we live in a world
where volatility continues to be the
theme, at least in the near future. This
to your point earlier, the signal is
there as in everyone wants this to
conclude quickly, and the duration of it
to be limited, but the reality is the
on-the-ground activity and the idea that
multiple players are involved could lead
this to lead a last a lot longer than
many people think. You've had the
comparisons to 2022 and this moment
right here. What do you think the major
differences are? I think the comparison
is that you have energy prices going up.
What we don't know yet is the duration
of that or the infrastructure and how
wide that is, let alone the escalation,
right? There's three big things there
that we don't have the answer to. 2022,
we saw this dynamic where oil went up
for a period of time. We saw interest
rates go up for a period of time, and
then eventually things pass. I think
this time around you're probably in a
similar scenario where you do see some
damage in the equity markets for a
period of time, but ultimately we flow
through it, and we have to focus again
on the underlying fundamentals, which
are going to be much more positive.
Well, if people are treating this as
though it's an inflationary shock, the
way that 2022 was, why don't you see it
exactly that way?
Well, this time I think one we've
experienced it before and the markets as
they've seen one thing before, they
start to accept the fact that that's a
possibility and are less concerned about
it. The other thing I think when you
think about it is when we look at the
dynamics here, oil, while very important
to economies globally, there is
solutions to this and we do think there
will be a deal escalation at some stage.
It's a question of timing, right? And
the longer we stay at high oil prices,
let's say 100 or above, the more
impactful it is to growth rates and
inflation. We believe that from a
developed markets perspective, if you
stay above $100 a barrel for, let's say,
a handful of months, you're arguably
going to decrease growth rates by about
a half a percent a year and you're going
to increase inflation rates about a 1%
per year for most major economies.
That's very detrimental to the markets
both from an interest rate policy
perspective, but also from an equity
perspective.
>> It's been treated like a stagflationary
shock, which includes people selling
long-term bonds. It seems like what
you're talking about is somewhat of a
different prescription. Why?
Well, I think why it's a bit different
is I think this is short-term. I don't
think this is a secular theme that we
are going into a stagflation period
that's going to last multi-years. I do
think ultimately you're going to have
central bank policy members look through
this and say, "Hey, we care more about
jobs, we care more about growth and
we're willing to look through a
temporary shock attached to higher oil
prices if necessary." That's not their
preference, but they were willing to if
it's necessary. And ultimately we get to
a point where we have energy prices get
back to a level that's one more stable
and not at this 90 plus or 100 plus
level. And I think that's what the
market is hoping for and I think that's
what most policy as well as
um political members out there think we
will still be in an environment where we
will get to a solution here where we
don't have to see the worst case
scenario. What do you think that means
for the stock bond correlation?
I think that's a problem. I I think the
stock bond correlation has been a
problem and will continue to be a
problem. And this is why we continue to
look for ways to improve portfolio
construction beyond just relying on
interest rates or lower interest rates
being your insurance.
>> Where do you go then? You Well, you go
to areas like commodities as an example.
That has been a good hedge in these
types of environments. You go to things
like gold, which maybe is not working as
well in the short term here, but has
been working very well over the last
couple years. And you look at other
types of alternatives. Why do you think
gold has not been working well? I think
gold hasn't been working well partly
because it had been working well, right?
It had worked very well for the last 2
years. You had a lot of players in
there. Some of those players decided to
exit either for liquidity reasons or for
reasons that they they made a lot of
money and they want to protect their
profits, right? And then you also have
what appeared to be the two classic
things that did work, which was the US
dollar, and you had the overall dynamics
of the market such as oil because that's
centerpiece of the geopolitical concern
work. And so,
>> asked this question 12 months ago, you
would have thought I was
>> I had asked this question 12 months ago,
you would have thought I was insane. Is
5K a good entry point to buy gold? I
think it is. Yeah, 12 months ago that
would have sounded nuts, but but now
this is a good opportunity.
>> We still believe that secularly we will
see higher gold prices over the next
several years.
Going forward, I'm just wondering if
you're ratcheting back your returns
profile more generally overall, whether
you think that investors have to expect
that in a reindustrialized world with a
higher rate of potentially inflation,
but also lower growth, this means that
you're just not going to get the same
kind of returns.
>> You absolutely have to dial back your
expectations. The reality is we are now
in a world where equity valuations are
high. We have uncertainty around yields,
and they may not go down a lot. And so,
I think your expectations for total
return port- from your portfolio,
whether it's from the fixed income side
or the equity side, have to be lower
than what we've seen over the last 20
years. Is the US still the safe haven
market?
>> I think for the time being it is, but I
do think once we get through some of
this more geopolitical dynamic right
now, I think we are going to go back to
a trade where you do see diversification
outside the US. Um dollar dynamics start
to be more on a back- uh back foot as in
dollar starts to depreciate again. So,
we think ultimately over the next
several years you are better served
having a more diversified portfolio, but
in the short term, US US dollar is a
safe haven trade that does provide some
level of hedge. Nate, it's good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Thanks for
having me. Nate Tufts of Manning &
Napier Investment Management, that
inverse correlation between the dollar
and risk really started to kick in over
the last few weeks, which flew in the
face of some of the things we heard
what, 2 months ago in Davos,
Switzerland. Sell the US. It was
potentially the most painful trade that
could have happened given how offsides
everyone was caught, and it only
escalated the strong dollar position.
And now you're seeing all these notes
flood in saying, "Now the feeling is
those have all been washed out. Get long
the dollar." And here we are starting
the year all over again.
>> The international stock story has been
quite a wild ride. The Nikkei and the
South Korean Kospi getting an absolutely
hammered in the last couple of days. The
Nikkei 225 in Tokyo actually bouncing
back this morning higher by 2.9%.
Equity futures doing just about okay on
the S&P 500. Up next on the program, I'm
going to end to the war.
We took a little excursion because we
felt we had to do that to get rid of
some evil.
And I think you'll see it's going to be
a short-term excursion. Are you thinking
this week it will be over? You're
talking about days.
>> I think so. Up next, Stephen of the
Council on Foreign Relations live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> One line for the president of the United
States, I think the war is very
complete. Pretty much. Equity features
look like this, a big bounce off
Monday's low. Equity features positive
by 2/10 of 1% on the S&P 500, on the
Nasdaq up by 0.3 on the Russell up by
1/10 of 1% just about avoiding a third
day of losses to kick off Monday
trading, a kick off trading this week.
And what a ride we've seen already. In
the commodity market at the highs almost
120, at the lows in the 80s. Brent crude
down by 7% this morning at $92 a barrel.
Now, a few weeks ago, 92 meant
something. That was much higher than
where we were, but 92 compared to where
we were Sunday evening, that's a bear
market. It's amazing that the market can
decline by 10% so purely on President
Trump saying, "I think the war is very
complete pretty much." As you just said,
saying that the US is very far ahead of
schedule. Then, he went on to say, "We
haven't won enough." And that the
conflict won't end this week. So, a very
difficult backdrop for people to get any
confidence in. Some contradictions in
those statements yesterday, but
ultimately the market heard what it
wants to hear. And this event this
morning, I'm going to end to the war.
We took a little excursion because we
felt we had to do that to get rid of
some evil.
And uh I think you'll see it's going to
be a short-term excursion. We're winning
very
decisively.
We're way ahead of schedule.
>> Are you thinking this week it will be
over? Talking about days.
>> I think so. We could call it a
tremendous success right now as we leave
here. So, here's the latest this
morning, President Trump hailing
significant progress in the Iran war,
saying the military objectives are
pretty well complete. Joining us from
Dubai is Bloomberg's Jumana Abu Seitchi.
Jumana, do the facts on the ground
contradict the statement from the
president in the last 24 hours?
Well, I think everyone in the region is
taking it with a pinch of salt, and not
least because the messaging coming out
of Iran continues to be one of defiance.
Just in the last hour, we had the
speaker of the Iranian parliament put
out a post on Truth Social saying that
they have absolutely no desire to go for
a ceasefire. Overnight, the Iranian
foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, also
once again warning neighboring countries
that if they hosted US assets, they
would be liable to attacks, and they say
they should not complain if the Iranian
missiles destroy US systems on their
territory. Indeed, even though we've
spoken about the intensity and frequency
of the attacks coming through on from
Iran onto GCC countries as having
diminished over the course of the last
few days, that doesn't mean that they're
still not firing drones. These are being
intercepted. Over here in the UAE this
morning, we also had a missile
interception alerts overnight in
Bahrain. More damage being leveled at
residential buildings, some civilian
deaths coming through. Saudi Arabia
still intercepting missiles as well. So,
there are still ongoing attacks going on
in the background. At the same time,
when you think about the economic
disruption,
for all intents and purposes, the strait
is still closed. And a spokesperson for
the IRGC said that not 1 L of
oil is going to pass through the strait
so long as the US and Israeli military
operations continue. And I just want to
draw on some really noteworthy comments
that we had from a very influential
industry leader, the Aramco CEO making
some comments on the earnings call
today, and calling this
catastrophic. He said the disruption
that we're seeing could have
catastrophic consequences for the
world's oil markets the longer this goes
on, and it will will more drastic for
the global economy. And then he adds,
"While we have faced many disruptions in
the past, this one by far is the biggest
crisis the region's oil and gas industry
has faced." So, just to give you the
severity, the magnitude of the type of
disruption that we're seeing, uh and no
letting up in sight, I will say, despite
the president's President Trump's
comments overnight.
>> Hi, Joumana. It's quite a statement. I
couldn't agree more. Joumana Bouacha
there, leading our coverage out of
Dubai. Joumana, stay safe. The hopium
came yesterday. The reality check out of
the Middle East came this morning. Yeah,
on two fronts, on both the IRGC and
their comments about how it's not over
till they say it's over, but also this
idea of output cuts that are significant
and some of the projections coming from
the oil executives in the region.
>> Almost 7 million barrels of oil per day
cut production cut that we've seen
across several nations in just the last
week. Stephen Cook of the Council on
Foreign Relations writing, "We should be
prepared for messy endings." Iran's
fractious opposition politics produces
instability. Stephen joins us now for
more. Stephen, welcome to the program.
You've heard this line many times, "Wars
are easy to start, but difficult to
win." To what extent is the end of this
war in the president's hands?
Well, I think that the president was
accurate in saying that the United
States has been successful tactically.
Um
clearly, the Iranians are no match for
the United combined military power, I
should say, of the United States and
Israel. But, they have demonstrated that
they still have considerable fight left
in them, um attacking GCC states and
beyond. I think the big mystery for
analysts like myself is why the United
States hasn't taken more proactive uh
military measures to ensure the Strait
of Hormuz is open. For as long as I've
been working on the Middle East, which
is now a long time, I've heard that uh
any effort to close the Strait of Hormuz
was going to be met with overwhelming
American force. Um we've used
overwhelming American force throughout
Iran, but not necessarily to keep the
strait open. There has been also a
question about the SPR in the US and why
it hasn't been filled. John was
mentioning that yesterday. I'm just
wondering how you assess the conflict.
We've heard things from President Trump
about where we stand. Does it feel like
it's wrapping up? Like it's culminating?
Like it's past its peak violence?
It does not. Um clearly uh the United
States and Israel still have target
lists. Uh the Israelis certainly uh
would like uh another few weeks to try
to crack open this regime. And as I said
before, the IRGC continues to have fight
in it. Um but none of those things
matter as much as President Trump's gut.
And I think in true fashion to the
president, he's keeping all of his
options open and I think that's what we
heard in the news conference and
statements coming out of uh
out of Florida yesterday. Um uh he could
call it a tremendous success and end it
now, but we're going to have more
victory. Uh is it ending soon? Well, not
this week. I think um he's going to
decide and the inputs that that help him
decide are gasoline prices, how his base
is responding, what the stock market is
doing. So um it doesn't feel like it's
over. We're past peak violence. Uh if
you look at the battlefield, but we
could wake up tomorrow morning and the
president could declare victory. Would
that be enough? Can we turn the tap off?
Well, it what would happen was we'd go
back to some ugly form of the status quo
ante in which um the regime has suffered
a significant amount of damage, um but
continues to threaten its neighbors and
hold a veto over the free flow of energy
resources out of the Middle East, which
is a core national security interest of
the United States. So uh it would uh we
would have weakened the regime, um but
we would not have solved the problem
that Iran presents to both the United
States as well as America's partners in
the region.
>> As Steven as well continues, one notable
feature of the retaliation from Iran has
been all the projectiles and missiles
that have been heading to other Gulf
nations. Over the last week we've
continued to ask the question, how will
they react? What's your read on things
as to whether they will step in and
engage in the conflict or whether
they'll continue to put pressure on
partners like the United States and
maybe put pressure on Israel as well to
step back.
Well, so far that hasn't happened.
That's clearly been the Iranian strategy
is to do a lot of damage to its
neighbors so that they put pressure on
the United States and the United States
puts pressure on Israel to bring this
thing to an end. But I think the
Iranians miscalculated and so far Gulf
leaders are outraged at what the
Iranians have done particularly the
massive waves of attacks on the UAE and
the damage that's been done to to
Bahrain. So so far we haven't seen that
pressure. We are hearing from oil
executives in the region. You mentioned
the Aramco CEO saying that this is
catastrophic. There may be a turn but so
far the GCC states are hanging tough and
as long as the United States and Israel
are making military progress, they are
not going and don't seem to be inclined
to ask the United States to call it off.
Stephen, when people say the United
States, we know who they're talking
about, the president. When they say
Israel, we know who they're talking
about. When we say the Iranians, who are
we talking about anymore? Who's leading
this?
Yeah, well, it's clearly now an IRGC
state. Mojtaba Khamenei, the the son of
the now late Ayatollah, is really a
creature of the IRGC
uh and this if the regime does not fall,
this is what the United States and other
partners in the region are going to have
to contend with. Um there are questions
about the command and control. Why would
the uh why would the Iranians hit um
Gulf states after the Iranian president
apologizes to said Gulf states but
nevertheless uh it seems that um the uh
chain of command within the IRGC remains
somewhat intact and they are able to
fire. So, um this is uh very much uh the
regime that the United States at the
initial outset of this conflict, a
little more than a week ago, called for
the end of. Steven, I was going to say
uh Steven Cook there at the Council on
Foreign Relations. That was one of the
contradictions of the weekend, I think,
for me, that the president was saying
one thing and the military was doing
something completely different, which
speaks to why when we talk about the
Iranians, we have to be very specific
about who we're talking about right now
and who's leading the response because
it's not the president. Seems to be
coming from elsewhere. And do we have uh
maybe this idea of who's in charge right
now in Iran? There are all sorts of
rumors and reports. I found it very
noisy out there when I try to get
information. We also should take a look
at if there is resolve in the Middle
East to try to stave off the regime from
coming back in the same way. What could
the potential future be on the bright
side in terms of oil supplies and in
terms of stability for the region? I
mean, this is what people are trying to
hope for as well. So, on the bright
side, when it comes to oil prices, they
are declining this morning. We're down
by 7% on Brent, 91.50 on WTI, we're down
about 6 to 7% at 88.30. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Steven
Schork of The Schork Group on the
massive swings in crude. Plus, Lizzie
drops by. She's got your morning movers
and energy producers falling alongside
the cost of crude.
Truly a historic day in financial
markets in the last 24 hours. This
trading range right here on crude,
119.50 at the high, 83.66
at the low, a $26 trading range. Shouts
out to Alex Longley of Bloomberg News
for this one. From intraday high to
closing price, the largest drop on
record for crude. I love some of the
commentary from traders who are in the
market. What markets are experiencing
right now is not just volatility, but a
sense of helplessness. How do you
understand a market when it's swinging
as though it were just sort of swinging
in the wind, it's penny stock kind of
behavior, and yet it's a massive market
with a lot of season traders who are not
really trading on fundamentals.
>> mercy of the price of crude. Crude this
morning down by 7% equity features
positive by 1/4 of 1% on the S&P 500, up
by 1/3 on the Nasdaq, on the Russell up
by about 2/10 of 1%, avoiding a third
day of losses on the S&P 500 in
yesterday's session. Consumer-facing
names getting some relief given the
turnaround in the price of oil.
Airlines snapping a 6-day losing streak,
and airlines have had a tough run of it.
>> They have a double whammy of both people
who are worried about traveling during a
time of conflict and uncertainty, and
then also oil prices surging. The idea
of how much this would really crimp
their profit margins. Getting a bit of a
reprieve, they are the template, sort of
the uh the harbinger of the
macroeconomy. So, when the macroeconomy
is swinging the way it has been, so too
are their stocks.
>> Yeah, fuel and delays. Think delays
pretty brutal, especially over the last
couple of days. Not a good time to be
flying at all, is it? I mean, honestly,
whether it's weather, whether it's the
snowstorms, whether it's the Middle
East, it's been a rough go of it. The
never-ending first quarter continues as
we count you down to the open and bell
about 3 hours away. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Alyssa Hasman, hey Alyssa.
Hey John, we have to start with energy.
It's the opposite story to yesterday. As
you say, today we've got oil down off
the back of President Trump's commentary
on the Middle East, and the energy names
are suffering today. But, the oil price
drop really is the reason for the relief
rally elsewhere, and that is a better
backdrop for the earnings that Oracle
will be dropping after the bell later.
So, flip the board over, Oracle is up in
the premarket ahead of these numbers, up
by nearly 2% at this point. Of course,
it's hard to find many stocks that have
been more battered by the AI scare trade
than Oracle. And so, the question
becomes with these earnings, no matter
how good they are, how much will the
stock be punished if traders deem their
CapEx plans too aggressive. But, we've
already heard from Oracle posting on X
earlier this morning saying that any
worries about their AI data center
build-out are for the birds and that
their flagship Abilene site is going to
run on schedule. Speaking of data
centers though, finally, TSMC, of
course, the go-to chipmaker for Nvidia
and AMD, Broadcom, it is up in the
pre-market. We've already had sales
numbers from this company up 30% in the
first 2 months of the year lifted by the
robust pace of AI infrastructure
construction before the war in the
Middle East broke out. The question now
is, can it continue apace given that
data centers have been targeted as part
of critical infrastructure? John.
Lizzie, thank you. Thank you for the
update, Lizzie Burden, in Atlanta this
morning. On our radar this morning,
crude falling as President Trump vows to
keep the Strait of Hormuz wide open.
I will not allow a terrorist regime to
hold the world hostage and attempt to
stop the globe's oil supply. The Strait
of
Hormuz is going to
remain safe. Well, it doesn't seem to be
safe right now. The president later
posting on social media, quote, "Death,
fire, and fury will rain down on Iran if
it continues to block tanker traffic."
Elsewhere, Gulf oil notes deepening
production cuts as the Strait of Hormuz
the Strait of Hormuz remains all but
shut down. Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait,
and the UAE cutting output by nearly 7
million barrels a day amounting to 6% of
global supply. And G7 energy ministers
meeting today to discuss the possible
release of oil reserves. The summit
coming a day after finance ministers
considered a coordinated release
determining it was not yet necessary.
>> Yeah, so what would trigger them? And
they are meeting yet again 1:45 p.m.
local time at the International Energy
Agency in Paris. The commentary from the
French Finance Ministry saying we're
going through the process, but obviously
all options are on the table. Even if
they don't come to some determination,
the fact that they are meeting and
discussing this is enough to at least
provide a little bit of a buffer against
some of the swings. Even if it's unclear
exactly what they would do, it indicates
psychology. Goes back to what you were
talking about, the psyche of leaders and
the response function to some of the oil
price surges. Clearly it's an issue,
clearly it's a political issue, and
clearly they are preparing for some sort
of response.
>> Yeah, the signal not the substance. I
thought the signal coming from the
Reuters report was interesting. I'll
read it to you if you missed it. Options
include restricting US exports,
intervening in the futures market. We've
heard that before. Waving some federal
taxes and lifting requirements under a
US law called the Jones Act, the
domestic fuel move only on US flagged
ships. That was the Reuters reporting
just yesterday. Yeah, and of course the
Jones Act got a lot of memes on X or
Twitter or whatever you want to say. I
am also very curious about restricting
exports to other allies because that is
something that really plays into the
hands
what does Europe do? Not only with with
gasoline, but liquefied natural gas
given that the US has really supported
some of the oil supplies and natural gas
supplies that have previously been
coming from Russia.
>> There are some options on the table.
Those options on the table are moving
the oil price around, but no one's
chosen option just yet. Crude is lower
by about 6% this morning, 92.50 on Brent
crude. The president pledging to keep
the price of crude lower.
I knew oil prices would go up if I did
this, and they've gone up probably less
than I thought they'd go up. We're also
waving certain oil-related sanctions to
reduce prices. When the time comes, the
US Navy and its partners will escort
tankers through the strait if needed.
Crude coming off its biggest intraday
swing on record. Stephen Schork of the
Schork Group writing, "If Hormuz remains
functionally closed, the base case
absent a cease-fire, the upper tails for
Brent and WTI come into focus. Stephen
joins us now for more. Stephen, what is
your sense, your read? How much
visibility do you have on what is
actually going through the strait right
now?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we can talk
about keeping the strait of Hormuz
open. We can talk about raining hell and
fire down on Iran if they decide to
close it. But effectively, if you can't
assure a tanker going through Hormuz,
you're not moving oil through the strait
of Hormuz. So, effectively, we've had
our blockage. We're about what, day
nine, day 10 into an effective blockage.
So, that's 20 million barrels of oil
that is not making it to the seaborne
market. So, we're looking at a
significant shortage of oil regardless
of the rhetoric coming out of both Iran
and Washington, D.C. Effectively, we are
looking at two, at best case, three
weeks, and I'm being optimistic there,
of a significant global shortage of oil
if we do not get that strait flowing
with a significant amount of restoring
the oil that typically flows there on a
daily basis.
>> Stephen, where and in what do you expect
to see that show up first? In Asia, in
oil product? What are you looking for?
Yeah, absolutely. We're looking for it,
and we're seeing it now in Asia. Now, of
course, there's the talk about release
of the SPR. We have at about 30 United
States and Western European countries,
we have about 1.4 billion barrels
sitting in reserves. If you release that
oil, realistically, you can get about 5
million barrels a day onto the market.
That would supplant a quarter of what
has been lost through Hormuz. But the
bottom line is, it's location. That oil,
if it were to be released, gets released
in the Atlantic basin. The oil that
comes out of the strait mainly goes to
Asia. So, look at the Asia markets, and
we do, we're looking at that. We're
looking at the Dubai market, which is a
Brent, which is a marker for the Asian
market. It is a sour oil trades at a
discount to Brent typically, because
it's an inferior oil, but it's trading
now at a $10 premium in the spot market
relative to Brent. So, that is clearly a
telltale that Asian refiners are
scrambling
to get heavy barrels to replace the
Arab heavy that has been lost through
the Strait. So, we're clearly seeing it
now in Asia with that inversion of the
Brent Dubai spread. However, when you
start to look at further out, when you
get to the month of June, Brent is now
trading at a $10 premium to Dubai
outgoing this summer. So, that's the
market's way of telling you they expect
to see some sort of resolution with the
Strait of Hormuz and easing to Asian
refiners between now and the month of
June. Steven, how difficult is it to
trade in this kind of market?
Oh, it is Well, it looks to me, I mean,
it makes Bitcoin look like a you know,
just buying IBM stock and just holding
it. It just makes Bitcoin look stable.
So, no, this is a market where you just
really have to keep it very, very tight
stops.
At this point, you cannot go take any
major position. When you have a market
that's literally moving yesterday
$30,000 per contract,
that's going to make or break people
significantly. So, that's what we're
seeing now. And then there's the rumors
of is the US Treasury interfering and
and and and coming into the market and
trying to short the futures. All sorts
of speculation out there. We have We
have no road map. We We have no
resolution to what's going on in Iran.
We have the President of the United
States saying, "Oh, this could end
soon." But then again, we still have
Iranian generals out there as if they're
auditioning for the role of the Black
Knight in the reboot of
Monty Python and the Holy Grail. So,
there is still a lot of chaos out there.
So, you have to keep your stops
extremely short, your positions
extremely small to get in and to get
out. The opportunities are there. When
you have a market that's swinging 20 25
$30 a barrel, tremendous amount of
opportunity
to get in and out, but it's a tremendous
opportunity to get burned. So, that
we've never seen a market like this. And
we're talking about June 2025 with the
12-day war. We're talking about 1991
with the invasion and kicking Kuwait
Iraq out of Kuwait. So, we've had a lot
of upheaval on these markets over the
last two generations. We've never seen
anything like this. So, take large
positions out there is akin to a death
warrant.
Stephen, I just wonder looking forward
once let's say there is a resolution and
supplies have been restarted. We keep
going back to the point that Jeff Currie
over at Carlyle Group made that there's
going to be a risk premium sort of baked
into physical commodities that have to
transport on the seas, not to mention
oil in particular. Do you agree? Do you
think that we're going to set at a
higher price just simply because there
is this risk of disruption that was just
thrown into cold relief?
Yeah, absolutely. Well, we do see a
resolution. If we look at what the risk
premium currently is, we look at the
spread between implied and historical
volatility. Historical is where the
variance in price has been. Implied is
where options traders think that the
premium is going to be. And that spread
premium is now that risk premium is now
well over $7 a barrel. It's increased $5
a barrel above where we were at the
start of this. So, there's already
significant risk premium priced into the
market. We're seeing it now also in the
formation of the steep backwardation.
That is to say prices have spiked in the
nearby months relative to the outer
months. There So, there in lies that
that premium of securing and this is the
market's a way of going in and securing
those barrels and hence bidding up the
prompt market. So, when we do look at
the forward curve, when we do look at
the spread between implied and
historical volatility, we're looking at
between a Well, if we look at the the
term structure, a $5 risk premium baked
in. And that is the increase we've seen
in the options market from about a $2
premium to $7 premium. That is where it
is now. But if we get the kind of
resolution we're hoping to see, i.e., uh
a regime change to a positive
uh government, which is a long ways off.
Well, clearly, I think that is a signal
that peace is at hand, and I would
expect to see that pre-price uh premium
uh
exercised out of the market in the blink
of an eye. But, that remains to be seen.
We have a long way to go before we get
from there to a peaceful regime in Iran.
>> Well, Stephen, before you go, as this
conflict continues, let me pick up on
that Reuters piece once again. And some
of the options available to intervene to
reduce crude prices, they include
restricting US exports, intervening in
the futures market, waving some federal
taxes, and lifting requirements under a
US law called the Jones Act that
domestic fuel move only on US flagships.
That verbatim coming from Reuters just
yesterday. What do you think is the
realistic option there on the table?
Well, the first one, uh restricting
exports, is idiotic because we simply
don't consume the type of oil that we
export. We have no use for it because
our refiners aren't refiners aren't
engineered to use that oil. So, if we
don't put that oil, we keep it for
ourselves,
what be? We're keeping it for ourselves,
but we can't use it. Uh with regard to
intervening in the in the
uh in the uh futures market trying to
sell it, well, you're trying to tell me
that the United States the US Treasury
is bigger than the global market for
oil. Quite skeptical. Uh I'm not as
well. So, uh if we want to, you know,
reduce some taxes and and other sort of
gimmicks, at the end of the day, John,
they're gimmicks, and none of them are
any sort of resolution to getting oil
flowing through the strait, which is
where we need it. So, no, I don't see
any of these gimmicks
um having any sort of positive impact on
prices at this point.
>> given the extreme backwardation in the
curve that you explained, why wouldn't a
lot of these authorities just sell the
reserves into the market and buy further
out along the curve? Why wouldn't they
do that?
Well, absolutely. And that is what that
is what's being um
talked about, about 1.4 million barrels,
but uh again, so we're talking about
that oil, you know, where where is it
getting released? You know, essentially
into the Atlantic Basin, where we do
have the Atlantic Basin is not short of
oil. And this is what's being priced off
of the ICE Brent crude oil market or the
NYMEX WTI market. So, where we need that
oil released would be in Asia, and
getting oil from the Atlantic Basin over
Asia is, uh,
a arduous process at this point. So, it
it makes for a great sound, uh, bite,
and we probably will, seeing at the
given spreads, but it will have a
limited impact on the markets where we
really need to see that oil. It's a good
point. Stephen, thank you. So, Stephen
Schork there at The Schork Group. Crude
this morning down by 6%, Brent at 92.50.
Lisa mentioned Jeff Currie. Jeff's going
to join us tomorrow, so looking forward
to that conversation. His recent note,
"Every major importer is securing supply
simultaneously. We estimate that
precautionary demand could be 2 to 3
million barrels per day over the next 3
to 6 months. The physical disruption is
the trigger. The behavioral response is
the multiplier." And I think it's the
behavioral response that you're already
thinking about.
>> back to storing, uh, oil barrels in our
living rooms. There is an issue though,
not just with oil, but more broadly, if
you could see disruption to the supply
chain as we've seen time and time again,
why wouldn't you carry more inventory if
you can, especially if it is a commodity
and not necessarily an item of clothing
that's going to go out of style? And
that I think is the behavioral
multiplier that he's talking about.
>> Let's keep it on the markets. Futures
this morning positive by 2/10 of 1%. Up
next, calming the bond market.
Global bond yields are moving quite
dramatically higher. This global bond
yields moving higher is going to keep
Treasuries higher as well, but I just
don't see Treasuries really breaking out
of the range on either direction. Up
next on the program, Shin Kadota of
Barclays from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> Following something like a $26 trading
range on the crude price in the last 24
hours at the high 119.50 at the low the
low 80s. Crude looks like this right now
Brent and WTI down by 7% and 6%
respectively. Brent crude at 91.84 WTI
at 88.89. In the equity market future
shaping as follows going into the
opening bell later this morning. Futures
positive by 1/10 of 1% on the S&P and
the Nasdaq by a quarter. Things were
pretty unsettling Sunday evening. Ed
Yardeni of Yardeni Research writing if
investors start expecting stagflation, a
bear market is more likely.
>> Yeah, and he increased his chance of
that turning to 35% from 25% just a day
earlier. It was moving quickly he said
because the bond the the price of crude
is moving so quickly. Have we taken that
off the table? And I think that's a key
question as we parse through different
Truth Social posts as well as different
rhetoric.
>> The bond market stuck between a rock and
a hard place under Savannah's this
morning calming fixed income.
Global bond yields are moving quite
dramatically higher. This global bond
yields moving higher is going to keep
treasuries higher as well. But I just
don't see treasuries really breaking out
of the range on either traction. So yes,
it's not a good flight to quality hedge
in this environment. But I also don't
see treasuries really moving out of the
out of the ranges that we've been in the
last you know few months. So here's the
latest this morning. Global bond free
pounding on signals the Iran war might
be coming to an end. Shing Chan of
Barclays writing with a channel for
upward pressure on yields to let by
inflation risk premium in place.
Geopolitical headlines remain in focus.
Shing joins us now for more. Shing
welcome to New York. Thank you. It's
good to see you. Thanks for being here.
Let's talk about Japan and Japanese
bonds. Typically yen assets are a haven
asset. But then you've got the fact that
we've got a terms of trade shock for
Japan as well. How are they behaving
given this shock right here?
Yeah, sure. So, in the reaction to the
you know earlier this you know this week
on the rise of oil towards you know 120,
Japan's market was basically seen yen
selling off as you know as you see the
terms of trade shock was over weighed
on the safe haven demand for the yen.
And then rate was twist deepening on you
know expectation that the BOJ's hike
might be delayed. What do you think
about the BOJ's monetary policy at the
moment and what are you expecting from
them in the next several months? Yeah,
so we continue to expect BOJ to hike in
April
and followed by you know two more hikes
in October and next April taking the
rates to 1.5%. And of course there's the
risk of delay in the BOJ hike maybe
towards you know June or July,
but I think you know there's also
you know discussion about the effects
cuz if the BOJ does decide to delay
effects, I think it does as add another
pressure on the effects side you know
dollar yen could go even higher and that
could worsen the negative terms of trade
shock cuz you know the multiply by the
oil and higher dollar yen. So, I think
the BOJ will continue to take relatively
hawkish stance you know as to avoid the
excessive yen weakness.
What's fascinating is how different
central banks are being treated in terms
of their response to an oil price shock.
In the ECB yesterday, there were two
rate hikes being priced in. The Bank of
England, there was one rate hike
potentially priced in at one point. It
has faded. For the Bank of Japan, it was
kind of the opposite. They said maybe
they would delay it. Is there a feeling
that the Bank of Japan's mandate is more
on the growth side now and very much
still not on inflation even if those
come into conflict? Yeah, so I think you
know the BOJ is in a very different game
in the sense that yes, they're trying to
contain inflation, but their bigger fear
is to go back to deflation. So, that's
why they're only moving slowly to make
sure that the growth doesn't get hurt
too much by you know excessive rate hike
or the oil price negative shocks. So,
they want to continue to be on the
hiking path, but not to hurt the growth.
That to avoid going back to deflation
that we experienced over the last 30
years. You know, there was a period of
time where we would talk about who's out
there trading Japanese bonds. Oh, it's a
not one government guy sitting on a desk
who owns all of them, and it's not
actually trading. There were days when
the Japanese bond market wouldn't trade
at all. How much has the nature of who's
involved in this market changed? And
people actually coming back who are
Japanese investors who now see value?
Yeah, so actually, so you know, you're
right that the BOJ was the only trader
in the market for a while.
But now, actually it's not so much the
Japanese investors that's coming back
in. It's actually the foreign
international investors are actually
coming back into the Japanese market.
And that's partly because the for
example, in the super long sector, life
insurance companies are actually
reducing the holding of JGB. That's
partly due to, you know, regulation, but
also due to some of the demographics
that demand for JGBs actually limited in
the domestic market. But the
international investors now see value in
the JGB because it's, you know, now more
comparable to say, you know, European
bond markets or in terms of the yield
and so forth. So, it's actually the
international community that's have come
back to JGB market rather than the
domestic increasing the presence. I
remember those headlines crossing the
Bloomberg back then, oh, the 10-year
didn't trade today. Which is kind of
crazy, right? And we saw that quite a
few times over a number of years.
>> It's what happens when you have 60% of
the market locked up in the government
balance sheet.
>> We've witnessed the enthusiasm for
Japanese equities from various US based
investors around this table. It is the
great repatriation trade that we're all
thinking about though, and Lisa gave a
nod to it. Do you think the money
eventually will come home? The money
that has been invested in European fixed
income into US equities, back into
Japan?
So, I don't think there's going to be a
major repatriation in the sense that
their holding of the foreign bonds have
also dropped in the recent years.
So, the largest sell-off of the foreign
bonds by Japanese happened in 2020 to
2023 when the global duration was
selling off and FX hedging costs were
rising. So, at that point, they already
reduced the ball foreign bond holdings.
And there I think additional money will
probably be invested more in Japan, but
they're also waiting to see, you know,
how high the BOJ hikes, and because they
don't want to be, you know,
you know, basically picking up the
falling knife at this
>> a final question before you go.
Obviously, the focus at the moment is on
the Middle East and the supply of
energy. As we start the conversation,
Japan massively exposed and Asian
refiners across the board, India, Japan,
and elsewhere exposed as well. How much
of a cushion do those refiners have
right now? What's your read on the
availability of energy at the moment?
Yeah, so Japan has this oil reserve,
which is worth about 250 days
of the supplies in in the daily
consumption in Japan. So, it could
actually withstand a very long period
compared to other countries.
But of course, you know, that's a
quantity issue, but there's also price
issue, which, you know, Japan faces the
higher oil prices, you know, that's
multiplied by the yen depreciation as
well. And they also LNG import prices
often linked to oil prices as well, so
that also gets hit. So, there could be a
quite a bit of a price shock on the
economy, which, you know, if extended,
could be a negative factor for the
Japanese growth outlook. Shin, it's good
to see you. Thanks for being here.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, sir.
Shin Kadota there of Barclays weighing
in on the latest in Japan fixed income
and global markets. That's a massive
buffer right there, but it's coming at a
pretty difficult time for a new prime
minister who's got a vision of where she
wants to take things. A little bit more
stimulus, a little bit greater degree of
fighting disinflation rather than
concerned about inflation. The reason
why this is so fascinating is because
where the 30-year Japanese bond yield
goes, so too goes the global bond
market. That is the belief. So, to the
degree that they have a different policy
than say the ECB in terms of their
target, it has ramifications for the
entire world.
>> suggested, there was a moment where we
couldn't even really call it a market
because it wasn't much of a market. You
need someone to buy and sell you know,
to have a market. And there wasn't much
of one for quite a while.
>> Yeah, it was controlled Uh it pretty
heavily. And there still is the glut of
debt, and that's our real question here,
and that's clearly what this
administration is dealing with. Crude
this morning down 7% about 92 on Brent.
Up next we'll catch up with Dan
Greenhaus of Solas, Mark Short, the
former chief of staff to the former vice
president Mike Pence, David Tinsley of
Bank of America, Kathy Jones of Charles
Schwab.
The surprise is that inflation is moving
in the opposite direction.
>> Nothing good comes out of spiking oil
prices this high.
>> The Fed is going to be very, very
focused on what happens on the inflation
side.
>> The big piece of this is how long this
energy shock lasts.
>> think it's fair for people to take cuts
off the table.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. And your
price action looks like this. Features
just about positive on the S&P
attempting to build on yesterday's
bounce up by 2/10 on the S&P 500, on the
Nasdaq up by a third. In the commodity
market, deep breath. The last 24 hours
has been absolutely exhausting for
anyone trading this stuff. 119.50 at the
high, in the 80s at the low. Brent crude
this morning 91.90. Yeah, a record move
yesterday in the intraday price action.
And what Steven Schwarz said is he's
never seen anything like this. Other
traders said things like, "This isn't
just volatility, but a sense of
helplessness because ultimately it's not
being dictated by fundamentals. It's
being dictated by comments that can
change at any moment."
>> continue, we've seen that a million
times. There is no sign of a diplomatic
off-ramp, and the production cuts keep
coming. They keep adding up. The UAE,
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, we're
talking about almost 7 million barrels
of oil a day taken out of production in
that region. That's going to have its
own impact.
>> Yeah, it's about 6% of global supply.
Together, those four nations produce
about 19 to 20 million barrels per day,
which accounts for about a fifth of the
global supply. So, if you think about
what this means, it is a massive
resource for the entire world,
particularly with respect to Asia, which
is the reason why people are gaming out
which regions are going to get hit
hardest and how much dispersion is there
going to be.
>> We keep coming back to this quote from
Amin Nasser of Saudi Aramco, typically
quite a reserved, conservative kind of
guy, saying this overnight. This one, by
far, is the biggest crisis the region's
oil and gas industry has ever faced,
calling it catastrophic. To Mana Passeti
out of Dubai, leading our coverage out
of the region over the last week or so,
making the same point that the way
they're talking about what's happening
on the ground with energy right now is
very different to the hopium that came
out of the administration just
yesterday.
>> This is the one-two punch of both the
shipments being prevented from going
through the Strait of Hormuz, but also
production being taken offline because
of some of the storage facilities being
filled up, but also because of
refineries that have been taken offline
in the region as a result of attacks.
This is a toxic brew, if you will, of
different events that has led a lot of
to a lot of pessimism among the oil
producers.
>> 91.90 right now, Brent. We're down by
7%. And as you know, things can change
very, very quickly. Coming up this hour,
Dan Greenhaus of Solus Alternative Asset
Management as crude prices whipsaw. The
former chief of staff to the former VP
Pence, Marc Short, as the White House
signals a potential end to the war. And
Kathy Jones of Schwab as bond market
pressure continues to ease. We begin
this hour with stocks pushing higher as
crude pulls back. Dan Greenhaus of Solus
Alternative Asset Management writing,
"If oil interference persists, the S&P
500 will probably be down 10%." Dan
joins us now for more. Dan, good
morning. Thank you, sir. Good morning to
>> You're not typically the kind of guy
that gets concerned easily. Are you
concerned?
Yeah, I mean, I haven't been on in a
little while, but last time I was on, we
were talking about the weakness in the
job market being something that was
concerning to me.
Obviously the the there has not been any
steep job off, but in the last jobs
report the private sector lost 86,000
jobs, which was outside of COVID the
largest single job month loss since the
GFC basically. Now obviously some of
that was skewed by the nurses strike and
and so we have to take it with a little
bit of grain of salt, but clearly the
job market slow down has has continued
at best. I mean it's it's probably not
getting worse, but it's certainly not
getting better. And so the backdrop
coming into what's going on is an
economy that's doing okay, but we're not
creating a lot of jobs, which ultimately
is the point of point of growth. Now you
layer on top of that obviously the
private credit software related issues,
which I don't think is
I don't know how many people are arguing
that it's systemic per se. I don't think
it is, but it is certainly affecting a
corner of the market. The financials are
down this year led by the Ares and the
Carlyles of the world.
And that raises concerns about the
prospect for additional lending going
forward and how much growth that has
spurred over the last couple of years.
And now you have what potentially could
be an oil price shock. So so getting
back to your question, am I concerned?
Yeah, the backdrop's not great and an
oil price spike is never a good thing,
but as a lot of people I'm sure are
noting, it's not necessarily about the
the peak per se so much as it is about
the the how how long this lasts. And and
right now I'm not too concerned if we
end this pretty quickly. Again, as you
noted oil prices are down considerably.
If you can get them back down into the
80s even, a little on the 70s, then I
think some of the worst case
prognostications are going to prove to
be
incorrect. Who is we when you say if we
can end this pretty quickly? Who are we
talking about? Wait,
no, I I was going to make a
I was I was going to make a bad joke,
but
no, people in the financial markets that
I talk to, I think are obviously acutely
concerned about this. And I'm when I say
we, I mean the people that I talk to
that represent the investor class if you
will.
>> Well, I'm talking about when you say if
we end this pretty fast, are Are talking
here the president ending this pretty
fast in the Middle East? Are we talking
about the Iranians getting on board and
ending this pretty fast in the Middle
East? Are we talking about the Israelis?
Yeah, it's it's it's it's everybody, of
course. I mean, listen, we know the
president yesterday said this is going
to be over soon enough. As as we were
talking about before we came on air, the
Iranians have a have a vote in this and
and certainly to the extent that they
don't want it to end, they can continue
with the the drone program, for
instance. But from a market standpoint,
I I think
I was I was just saying, so on the
political side of things, there's this
conversation about why are we there? The
shifting rationales. And that's a
perfectly fair political conversation to
have. But from a market standpoint,
whether it's missile capacity or nuclear
capacity or the regime itself, the
president and the Americans have a
number of off-ramps to say uh
to to declare victory, so to speak, and
call it a day. Now, again, the Iranians
have a vote in this, but from a market
standpoint, that's a number of different
positive outcomes in terms of this being
quote unquote over.
>> Which is the reason why, for the most
part, markets are trading as though this
is going to be limited in time. And
frankly, Jason Thomas of Carlyle just
put out a note saying, "The risk is
time." Right now, people are assessing
that that risk is contained. Has there
been anything that has shifted based on
the nonfarm payrolls report plus the
fact that oil prices are probably going
to be somewhat higher, at least in the
next 3 months as a result of this?
>> Yeah, I I I think we should certainly
get comfortable with the idea that oil
prices will be higher. And this is
something that we talked about for a
while. A number of times I've come on
here, I've noted uh we we we've been
interested in the energy space and
invested in the energy space partially
on the idea that the long-standing
geopolitical risk premium has
effectively ground to zero. That's now,
presumably for the immediate future, not
going to be zero anymore. So so are we
going back to oil in the potentially
50s? I mean, the coming into this was
the oversupply issue. We're working
through that very very quickly. Uh we're
probably talking about a more normalized
environment, excuse me, in the 60s or
70s. However, to shift back into the
political realm for a second, 5 years
from now, 7 years from now, 10 years
from now,
perhaps the geopolitical risk premium
should be flat or negative on the idea
that well, now you I mean in the best
case scenario, you've got a more
accommodative Iranian regime, the
Lebanese are now reaching out to the
Israelis, you've got the Abraham
Accords. Perhaps this is step, I don't
know, one, two, or three in terms of
reshaping the region and creating a an
environment where geopolitics is perhaps
less of a concern. Maybe that's a little
Pollyannish, but that is one possible
longer-term outcome.
>> And they say things headlines seem to be
coming. The president has done a series
of interviews with a range of media
outlets in the last few days. This one
is with Fox News releasing this comment
right here. That the president says it's
possible to speak to the Iranians. Off
the back of that headline, crude rolling
over just a touch, we're now down by
more than 8% on Brent to $90 and about
70 cents. More of the same from the
president.
>> Yeah, communication and it's the signal,
perhaps more than the details since we
don't really have a lot of details, but
the signal is there is a desire to talk.
There is a desire to find that off-ramp,
which is the reason why people are
leaning to the idea that it will be
contained. What is the new normal once
this is contained? And I think that
you've got both what Dan was talking
about in terms of the really bullish
scenario for oil prices coming down and
a more greater and durable peace. Then
you have a more negative idea with more
protracted higher oil price.
>> Dan, what is the price of the volatility
given the front end backdrop that you
described at the start of this
conversation?
Well, I mean you see it in the in the
VIX and the VVIX and the OVX. I mean
volatility is everywhere and deservedly
so. I I would just to dodge that
question for a second and go back to
what you just said about the the
president talk.
This is we shouldn't be surprised. I
mean this is a this is a guy who flew to
North Korea. And he was willing to talk
to the North Korean president. Something
that the entire political class thought
was nothing short of insane. So and he's
said repeatedly that he doesn't you
know, I know some people will find this
offensive so to speak to say, but this
is a guy who's repeatedly said he
doesn't want to go to war. He doesn't
want to have war. So I entirely am not
surprised by the idea that he would talk
to the Iranians.
>> So, let's say there is an off-ramp. And
let's say it is contained the next
couple of weeks, right? And I understand
that's a huge if.
Has there been I mean just as sort of
what people are trying to get to, has
this alone put a damper on the
forward-looking growth trajectory,
especially paired with nonfarm payrolls?
And we just got small business optimism
that did fall below expectations earlier
this morning. I mean, are we looking at
everything in a negative light right now
simply because people are feeling
jittery and will once again go back to
potentially things surprising to the
upside?
>> The first thing I would say is I think a
lot of people have been looking at
things in a negative light, not just
right now, but for 20 years. We've
talked about this in the past that
post-GFC Been scammed by it. Yeah,
everyone's trying to be an oil rabini.
We've we've I've made this comment a
couple of times.
>> Who's by the way bullish right now, but
carry on. Fine. Yes. Free right now. Um
so so yeah, I think there's a lot of
pessimism. However, again getting back
to the the peak versus the duration
conversation, if oil prices come back
down and this is wrapped up in in a week
or two and we get ships going back
through the Strait of Hormuz, etc.,
etc., then I don't think there's going
to be too much lasting damage or
scarring, so to speak, in the economy.
Obviously, there'll be some short-term
issues. Gasoline prices at the prompt,
which is ultimately what matters for
consumers, are already higher. I have
friends talking about seeing $4
gasoline. Um but that will pass quickly
if we start getting oil back. And
eventually, we will return
somewhat closer to the oversupply story,
the 2 million barrel oversupply story
that persisted before this moment. Um
I don't know that how quickly we're
going to get there, but again, oil price
spikes tend to be temporary in nature.
That's why we call them spikes instead
of oil price plateaus. How much have you
been getting involved then as a result
of this if you actually do see a more
positive outcome and you see price
dislocations?
>> Well, listen, we're all
to repeat, we've been in energy for a
little bit of time now. So, this is all
working to our benefit. I don't know if
I'm allowed to say this and my
compliance department will have a
talking to when I get back. But so this
is
to anyone who's exposed to energy will
say that
is is obviously benefiting positively
and for those people the question
becomes do you lighten up into this and
if so do you rotate I mean one thing I
was talking to somebody last night about
is if you've been in energy as some are
maybe you want to rotate out of energy
take some profits off the table and go
into something like the airlines that
have been disproportionately hurt by
this or perhaps the cruise lines because
we can pretty much model out obviously
the the fuel costs for both of those
industries and if oil goes back down and
jet fuel falls and
and and cruises see a benefit you might
see a pop in those names on the other
side of this so there there are things
to do around this if you believe as I do
that the economy is not in the short
term going to be meaningfully impacted
>> the consumer facing the interest may if
we put it together everything you've
been talking about the labor market is
somewhat fragile I don't think it's
stable I think it looks fragile the
financial conditions have been
tightening you can see that across the
market and then you layer this on top of
the time we're about to get tax refunds
I don't think the average consumer the
consumer with a higher marginal
propensity to spend right now is going
to take that tax refund after seeing
these headlines and book the cruise
or book the flight
>> Well and that's why it's important to
get a headline on Sunday that said
victory declared war over in which case
we already have seen tax returns are up
call it 10% year over year couple bucks
in people's pocket that's very helpful
obviously gasoline's increase will eat
into that somewhat but the the larger
benefit from the no tax on tips etc etc
really over time more than tips is going
to be beneficial to the economy the
consumer already we know in the United
States is disproportionately inclined to
consume and they're going to start
seeing some larger tax breaks and that's
going to be a positive going forward I
would just say the labor market has been
fragile so to speak for some time now
and while I mentioned earlier the the
drop in private payroll growth although
again partially related to the strike
I haven't seen it get worse yeah the
unemployment rates have been drifting up
although there's some nuance to that,
but I haven't seen it get worse. And so
to the extent that it doesn't get worse
and we're just in this
low growth or no What is it? No No
hiring, no firing?
>> Low hire, low fire. I don't I don't
know.
LFLH
very close to LFLO from the 2000s for
the for the Gen X and millennials out
there.
As long as it's not getting worse, then
I'm okay. And it's important again, the
core right now fun you know to the
earlier comment, fundamentals don't
matter. Let's get oil prices back down
and then we can all take a breath.
>> That's down this morning. That's down by
about 7 to 8% at $91 a barrel on Brent.
Dan, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir.
>> My pleasure, sir.
>> Thank you. Dan Greenhaus there for Solus
Alternative Asset Management. Up next on
the program, betting on a short war.
We took a little excursion because we
felt we had to do that to get rid of
some evil.
And I think you'll see it's going to be
a short-term excursion.
>> Are you thinking this week it will be
over? Talking about days?
>> I think so. Up next, Mark Short, the
former chief of staff to the former VP
Pence. From New York City this morning,
good morning.
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equities just about turning
negative just moments ago on the S&P
500, unchanged now on the S&P, on the
Nasdaq 100 positive by close to a tenth
of 1%. The small caps, the Russell,
negative by thirds still, even as we
pare some of the big gains we've seen in
crude more recently. Brent is down by
close to 8% 9120, WTI 8790.
The president speaking to Fox News a
little bit earlier. They released some
of those comments open to speaking to
the Iranians. More soothing headlines
over the past few days.
>> Indicating a willingness to find an
off-ramp at a time where it's not
exactly
uh one something that he wants to see in
terms of oil prices rising to this
degree. You've raised the question
multiple times. How much agency does he
have to unilaterally end this conflict?
And I think that that's a question that
we should give some more time to.
>> It's something I'm slightly
uncomfortable with right now.
The amount of people we're speaking to
that are comfortable that the president
has the ability to end this whenever he
wants. This is not liberation day. This
is not tariffs on, tariffs off. You've
opened up something else now in Iran.
And it's not clear to people who's
actually running the show in Iran.
Particularly the major contradiction
over the weekend when the president
comes out and apologizes to Gulf
partners, Gulf neighbors. And then the
strikes continue because he's not really
running the country at the moment.
>> Yeah, there are a lot of questions also
about Israel's goals cuz Israel's also
involved in this. And it doesn't seem
like they're entirely aligned with US
goals. There's also a question about
some of the Middle Eastern neighbors
that are experiencing these missile
incoming uh attacks and are going to
respond. There are a lot of questions as
this does widen its umbrella. Under
Savannah's this morning, betting on a
short war.
We took a little excursion because we
felt we had to do that to get rid of
some evil.
And uh I think you'll see it's going to
be a short-term excursion. We're winning
very
decisively.
We're way ahead of schedule.
>> Are you thinking this week it will be
over? You're talking about days.
>> I think so. We could call it a
tremendous success right now as we leave
here.
Here's the latest this morning, crude
prices pulling back as President Trump
signals an early end to the Iran war,
calling military objectives quote pretty
well complete. Bloomberg's Dana Kendall
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump maintains that the US is ahead of
schedule in achieving its military
objectives, but that he doesn't think
that the conflict will resolve this
week. In fact, he says that the military
operation will not resolve until he is
satisfied that Iran's nuclear program
will not be able to be obtained. Now,
you mentioned we got new comments this
morning with the president speaking to
Fox News saying that he would be willing
to speak to the Iranians, but then added
that he quote sort of doesn't need to
speak to them anymore. Pair that with
comments that we got earlier this
morning from Iran's parliament speaker
saying that the country is quote
absolutely not seeking a ceasefire and a
statement overnight from the IRGC
maintaining that it will block oil
exports from the region. Yesterday,
President Trump threatened to widen the
list of US targets to electricity
infrastructure if disruptions continue
in the Strait of Hormuz. He reiterated
that the US Navy stands prepared to
escort tankers through that critical
waterway which at the moment remains
effectively shut. As Bloomberg News
reports this morning, it appears
electronic warfare is jamming signals in
the straits. Now, President Trump has
said that there could be a few options
on the table when it comes to curbing
high prices. We heard him yesterday
mention the idea of waving certain
oil-related sanctions, though he didn't
specify that beyond saying he spoke with
Russian President Vladimir Putin about
it yesterday. John, people familiar with
the matter tell us that the
administration has been looking at
several options including a federal gas
tax holiday which would require
congressional approval or tapping
strategic reserves amid questions about
replenishing the SPR. I will quickly
leave you with one domestic angle to
this. New polling out from Ipsos this
morning finds that 67% of US adults are
concerned that gas prices are going to
get worse in the year ahead.
>> That is not surprising, Tana. Thank you,
Tana Gando down in Washington. The
signal from the president is important.
So is the reality on the ground. Just as
we're speaking, these headlines
crossing. The UAE says it's currently
responding to a missile threat. Qatar
saying they intercepted a missile
targeting the state of Qatar. And we've
seen headline after headline like that
and more still to come.
>> Yeah, and the IRGC coming out and saying
this war isn't over until we say it's
over, even though the president is
saying, "I can stop this at any point."
>> Joining us now to discuss is Mark Short,
the former chief of staff to the former
vice president, Mike Pence. Mark, good
to see you. Great. Great to be here.
Thank you.
>> This is not in the president's
traditional playbook. This feels so, so
different. Typically, he has something
targeted, it's limited, it leads to a
period of de-escalation. This feels so
open-ended. How would you characterize
what's evolving in the Middle East?
Well, I think there's some truth to that
that obviously, you know, Venezuela, he
wasn't looking for regime change. He
left Maduro's number two in place.
But at the same time, I think the
president always likes optionality,
which I think you've witnessed over the
last 10 days is that
explanations as to how long this is
going to be continue to vary a lot. And
so, I think you'll continue to see him
want to keep that optionality as to
whether he continues to prosecute this
war or pull back. How different is this
time in terms of the support from other
Republicans in Congress for the effort?
I mean, it was sort of pretty unified
around Venezuela. Is it the same here?
Well, I think that there's obviously
been a growing threat of isolation
inside the Republican Party. I think
it's been notable that J.D. Vance has
been pretty quiet and not as visible as
far as advocating for these policies.
And I don't think there was as much of
an effort ahead of time to explain to
the American people the priority and why
we're doing this, which is why I think
you see the polling down. Having said
that, Alyssa, if the president's
successful here, and in many cases this
military operation has been successful,
but if he also able to transform the
Middle East for generations to come, I
think you'll see a lot of Republicans be
on board with this. I think the greater
political concern in the short term is
that affordability remains number one
issue for Americans. And, you know, I I
think that even if best-case scenario
prices, you know, now are in the $80 to
$90 range a barrel,
that's still a 33% premium over what
they were. That's not going to help with
the affordability issue heading into the
midterms in November. So, what do you
think is the most feasible counter
action to that by by president heading
into the midterms? I think the most
feasible is to get to you explain why
this is necessary action, why for 47
years Iran has been at war with the
West, why they've, you know, going back
to a funding the Hamas and the Hezbollah
and the Houthis, why they've why they've
killed Americans in Western Islam, why
we did this. I think that's what he can
do best. As far as you know, triggers, I
think that one thing that would be
helpful is if you relieve the Jones Act,
but I think there's a lot of tension
inside the administration because you
have the protectionists and the Peter
Navarros from that is that is
sacrosanct. They don't want to see that.
I'm you know, I think it's disappointing
to see actually leave providing relief
for for Russian oil at this point. I
think that you know, Russia's been
partnering with Iran for quite some
time. Iran's been funding and been
providing them drones in their war in
Ukraine and our and our recourse of this
is to actually relax the oil sanctions
on Russia, I think shows the sensitivity
they have politically to rise in oil
prices. There's something very backwards
about the whole thing. We're now asking
help from the Ukrainians to help us
intercept drones at the same time we're
offering sanctions relief to the
Russians who they're fighting with at
the moment. Make sense of all of that.
>> No, thank you. I mean that's basically I
mean ultimately you're sort of putting
your thumb on the scale on both sides.
Anyone who's saying this is going to
create a sooner resolution to the
Ukraine-Russia war, please explain to me
exactly how.
>> just make the question how prepared they
were for this. Why the Chinese were able
to stockpile energy over the last 12
months and America didn't refill the
SPR?
Well, look, I mean I'm that I think that
there was a lot of depletion of this of
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve during
the Biden administration. Depletion. And
I think there were opportunities to to
continue to replenish. And I do you
think that there's obviously more oil
production out of out of the United
States today? And I think that the
president deserves credit for having
lowered energy prices as significantly
as he did. But as we've talked about on
your show, I think that the the the
reduction energy prices in many cases
was masking the trade agenda and the
extra cost. If all of a sudden you've
taken that that relief off the table, I
think you're going to see the trade
agenda
uh
come to the voters even more
sensitively. How much control do you
think he has
over the fate of what's developing
before our eyes? Look, I think he has he
has more control than anybody else, but
I as you said, I don't think he has
total control over this. And then you're
saying, I mean I mean Cutter's still
saying $150 before this is all said and
done. They have facilities that are
still offline. Bahrain has facilities
offline. And so it it seems to me
there's a heck of a lot more volatility
here and it's just because the president
signaled maybe this will be a
shorter-term conflict. Uh that doesn't
mean that that's guaranteed. Marcus,
good to see you. Great to be here. Thank
you, buddy. Thank you. Mark Short, there
the former chief of staff to the former
vice president Mike Pence. Successive
presidencies have had reasons to do what
the president is doing right now, but
there is a reason why they didn't take
the playbook off the shelf.
Because it can get messy very easily.
Yeah, in the Middle East things are not
typically clean and we've seen that time
and time again. There is a rationale for
this and a potential best-case scenario
that's really good and I don't think
that we should lose sight of that. The
problem is the path there is so messy
and uncertain and bringing in so many
variables and changing on a dime, which
is leaving people wondering what is the
playbook now given that as President
Trump said himself, some of the people
he was thinking about to lead Iran are
no longer in existence. So, how do you
proceed with a path forward?
>> to all the headlines, the stories, the
policy effort around affordability and
then this? Very quickly the message gets
murky. Now, if you come out the other
side with more production, maybe you got
a better story to tell, but the runway
we've talked about the amount of time to
the midterms, that runway's getting
shorter and shorter as the months go by.
Next on the program, David Tinsley of
Bank of America Institute as the
conflict in Iran hits the US consumer.
Interesting set up this morning. You've
got crude declining and the equity rally
stalling. Check it out. Crude's down by
about 8% at the moment. We're down by 8%
say on Brent and on WTI at the moment
down by seven. 88 on WTI, 91 on Brent.
That's the picture of crude. As the
president speaking to Fox News says,
he's willing to speak to the Iranians.
As the strikes continue, make sense of
that. But once again, the difference
between the signal and the facts on the
ground. And then the equity market rally
just rolling over. No positive follow
through here off the vicious bounce from
Monday's low in that trading session.
We're just about unchanged on the S&P
and on the Nasdaq just about positive by
a 10th of 1%.
>> Yeah, and ultimately at a certain point,
are we seeing enough calm where some of
the stock traders can take a step back
and say, "Why would I be incredibly
invested in incredibly volatile time?"
Number one. Number two, what has changed
even if there is some sort of pause to
this? Well, it's going to be higher oil
prices and it's going to be consumer
that is still crimped and possibly a
Federal Reserve and other central banks
that are will refrain from cutting rates
anytime soon. And it is a landscape
potentially to crimp growth.
>> It's a triple threat. You've got a labor
market that's fragile, an economic
backdrop that's not convincing but has
the potential to improve with all the
stimulus behind it. Then you've got the
tightening of financial conditions laid
on top of that and the energy shock
that's exacerbating the problems for the
both the first point and the second
point. Put that all together, it's not a
great picture right now for risk assets
even if you believe the president's in a
position to back away.
>> Even if he backs away, there are these
production cuts that have already gone
into place that will take potentially
weeks to really work through. Brent
crude this morning down by close to 8%
9140 as we count you down to the open in
about 2 hours away with your morning
movers. Danny Hasmore, hey Danny. Hey
John, looking at some of the stocks that
are specifically moving on that oil move
and did yesterday, too.
Oxy, Chevron, Devon again, all these
turned around yesterday with the news
coming from the president about a
possible short-lived nature to this
excursion as he called it. Now for the
past week, Oxy is the only one of these
stocks that's positive and it's only
positive by 1 and 1/2%. So today's move
should erase that gain so far since the
war broke out. On the flip side of
things, you have the beaten-up stocks
and that were the airlines, the cruise
ships because of higher oil prices,
higher fuel, and maybe concerns about
sentiment. So, these stocks turned it
around yesterday. They are getting a
slight pop, but John, much like the
overall market, some of that
convincingness of the gains of this
morning is starting to wane, but they're
up at least half a percent in the case
of Delta. Finally, some earnings news
coming from Kohl's and a big
disappointment. Comparable sales fell
2.8% percent. It has been years of
declining sales for Kohl's. They can't
turn it around. They have a new CEO.
That not helping them out. Shares
dropping 7.4%
saying that the competition was tough
for Black Friday. Also seeing Macy's
shares fall in sympathy sympathy this
morning, too, John.
>> Hey, Danni, thanks for the update. More
from Danni in the next hour. Kohl's
problem or consumer problem? We often
play that game with the retailers.
>> So, I'm trying to figure out what their
commentary was and they really came in
incredibly weak on fourth-quarter
earnings. It's being treated as a
consumer problem, which gives you a
sense. I mean, ultimately can't answer,
right? But which gives you a sense of
how the market's treating it, which is
this is a broader issue, not just a
Kohl's issue. That's usually how the
retailer wants to describe it in a
moment like this, right?
>> Exactly. You know, "Our turnarounds on
track." That's the commentary and people
are saying, "Okay, maybe."
>> Never about execution. Well, people are
sort of looking at them and saying,
"Let's see." It's a choice for consumer,
as they enjoy saying. On a radar this
morning, crude prices easing as
President Donald Trump signals the
conflict in Iran is nearing an end.
On Iran, you called it an excursion. You
said it would be over soon. Are you
thinking this week it will be over? Are
you talking about days?
>> I think so.
>> Okay. And and with respect
>> Very soon. Look,
everything they have is gone, including
their leadership.
In fact, they're two levels of
leadership and even actually, as it
turns out, more than that, but two
levels of leadership are gone. The
president saying the Navy will escort
tankers through the Strait of Hormuz. As
well, Gulf oil giants deepening
production cuts as the Strait of Hormuz
remains all but shut down. Saudi Arabia,
Iraq, UAE, and the UAE cutting output by
nearly 7 million barrels a day amounting
to 6% of global supply. And finally, the
White House weighing several options to
curb rising gas prices including the
release of emergency stockpiles and
halting collection of the federal gas
tax. The president saying he has a plan
to address energy costs without
providing the details.
>> And one person after another has come in
and explained the limitations of each of
these various proposals. Mark Short was
just saying the most likely one would be
relieving gas taxes and potentially
ships that are built from foreign sh-
you know, foreign ships in US harbors,
which I believe is something covered by
the Jones Act. But there is internal
pushback because it sort of pushes
against some of the nationalistic
efforts by this administration. It is
policy in conflict right now on a whole
multiple slew of levels.
>> finance ministers surprised me
yesterday. Felt like we were drifting
towards release of emergency reserves
and somehow they backed away and said
they weren't there yet. Well, they're
still talking, so there's still time.
Wouldn't it make sense to? Isn't that
what they're there for? You know, if
they think that this is going to be
short-lived, and I'd actually be very
curious to see what the rhetoric is
coming out of there. Why would they use
their their resources now given the fact
that supply shocks have happened again
and again and again. So what is
President Trump what is the US
administration telling them about the
timeline? I know this feels a little bit
like reading tea leaves and tarot cards,
but that's where we're at.
>> If the president and the White House is
relieving sanctions on the Russian
crude, I think that tells you that
they're not in a good spot right now.
No, isn't that the obvious signal from
that? If you're compromising your
foreign policy objections objectives
elsewhere, then things aren't going
well, are they? Well, I think a lot of
people would agree with that. Let's turn
to the consumer feeling the pain at the
pump. The average price for a gallon of
gasoline jumping more than 50 cents
since the war broke out. The Bank of
America Institute reporting recent rises
in the international price of oil and
the knock-on effect on gasoline prices
may put some upward pressure on
household spending. David Tinsley of the
Bank of America Institute joins us now
for more. David, thank you. Enjoyed the
read. Once again, the difference between
now and 22. It appears to be many
things, but including the household
balance sheet and incomes. How much can
this consumer offset? How much of a
cushion is there to insulate themselves
from this energy price shock?
Hi Jonathan. Yes, I'm joining you
actually from BofA's consumer and retail
conference in Miami. So all of this is,
you know, real top of mind stuff down
here.
What we see in our data is a very robust
spending picture as of February.
January, February together. The weather
was messing around a little bit with the
January data. But really to your
question about balance sheets, in our
report today we're pointing out a couple
of things really. One is that consumers
have some space to borrow. When you look
at the proportion of our customers that
pay off their full credit card balance
every month, it's actually higher than
it was in 2019. So some people can
borrow more. They've dry powder, if you
like. And
the good news really is that the refund
checks from the stimulus are hitting
people's bank accounts right now. Now,
a few weeks ago, that probably would
have been spent I would say or spent on
discretionary goods, of course. Right
now, maybe a little bit more of it will
end up being spent on necessity goods,
gas price gasoline, for example.
David, have you got a read on the
spending right now? What's the early
read on where the money's going? Is that
where it's headed?
For the tax refunds, what we're seeing
right now, and it's really early days,
is So it's interesting actually that
higher income households are getting
bigger refund checks. They're up over
10% more up more than for lower income
households and middle income households.
But because lower and middle income
households are under the pressure,
they're spending more
out of those refund checks. And so when
we look at, for example, discretionary
spending, 3 weeks before 3 weeks after a
refund check, lower-income households,
their spending's up about 20% plus, and
it's less than that for the for for the
whole sample. So, I think, you know,
it's a slight mixed bag. Early days,
like I say, perhaps it'll end up more
being skewed towards these affordability
issues, but at the moment it is being
partly spent and partly paid debts also
being paid down on them using the money,
I think.
David, we've seen different retailers
report very different results depending
on which part of the K they cater to,
whether it's very wealthy individuals or
whether it's middle and lower class
lower lower-income individuals. I'm just
wondering from your perspective, do you
see that K widening or coming together?
Well, you know, in the very latest data,
there's a small narrowing in the K
between higher-income households and
lower-income households, but I wouldn't
make great play of that. It's I think
it's the lowest it's been in our data
for about 6 months, but it's still very
wide. But I think last month we were
talking about the middle-income
households and how increasingly it looks
like there's a K opening up between
higher-income households and
middle-income households, and that's
still very clear in our data. And just
one other point, all of this is
underpinned by wage dynamics.
Higher-income households in our data,
uh, their wages are growing at over 4%.
For lower-income and middle-income
households, their wage growth is for it
is is moving lower. And so, the gaps
between higher and middle and
lower-income households, they're the
widest in our data for wages that
they've been for 10 years. So, even
though this tax refund story can kind of
shift the data around over the next 6
months, when we come back to what's
going to drive the consumer in the
second half of this year, it's going to
be wages. And that supports continuation
of the chaos thing. Does it support
continuation of strength in the economy,
or does it point to a very different
backdrop with less consumer resilience?
Yeah, that's a good question. So, I
mean, higher income households, you
know, they really punch above their
weight in terms of overall consumption.
And the growth in that cohort's pretty
steady. So, I think going into the
second half, as long as those guys are
still spending and still their spending,
the overall consumer picture can look
quite healthy. Now, middle and lower
clearly a concern, particularly middle
if it continues to cool. So, you know,
we might come off a frothy period,
partly related to tax refunds, but I
think there should still be some
momentum behind the consumer in the
second half. David, we hope you're
right. It's good to see you, as always.
David Tinsley there of the Bank of
America Institute. Tax refunds should
help cushion this economy. But that was
the bull case, and now it's like the as
you were case, and that's a problem. And
that's why the oil move is a shocker.
You want to these guys to go and spend
this money on discretionary goods and
help fuel about in the US economy. And
now we're talking about the money going
to necessities, and the spread between
high income and middle income getting
wider and not narrower. All of that is
adding up to a very different view of
the future than where we were even just
a month ago. If people are looking for a
sugar high from these tax refunds, that
sugar high, to your point, is probably
going to
staples, not necessarily discretionary
goods. I'm just thinking about the fact
that the wage growth gap between higher
income and lower income families is the
widest that it has been since 2015. This
really speaks to a question of at what
point that gets rectified by some
overarching economic trend, or whether
this just gets expressed in the
political venue, which is the reason why
affordability is increasingly on the
agenda time and time again.
>> A massive midterm issue. Equities, by
the way, down by about a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500 at the moment. In the
commodity market, crude still negative
by 7 to 8%. We're down to 9120 on Brent
crude following a wild ride in the last
24 hours. Still tracking the headlines
coming out of the Middle East. This, a
report just moments ago, Iran beginning
a new wave of missile strikes on
northern Israel. There is little sign of
de-escalation this morning on the
ground, even if you're seeing signs of
the president trying to put together an
off-ramp for the crude market.
>> Iran has come out and said, "We're not
done with this." I mean, they've said
this repeatedly at the same time that
they elected someone or they they chose
someone to be the next supreme leader
who is a continuation play of the prior
leader. So, a real question here about
what the off-ramp is for Iran,
especially with the enriched uranium
still on the table and questions about a
land operation to go and get it. So,
still a lot of questions around the
story.
>> Um, next on the program, protecting the
flow of energy.
We're also focused on keeping
energy and oil flowing to the world.
And I will not allow a terrorist regime
to stop the globe's oil supply. They
better not play that game. Um, next,
Kathy Jones of Charles Schwab live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
So, we've got some things to get
through. Let's start with this. The day
ahead is shaping up as follows. In the
next hour, you will get a briefing from
the Pentagon, the defense secretary.
Pete Hoekstra will be speaking. That's
about 15 minutes away. In the next hour
or so, we should get another call, this
time from G7 energy ministers with a
release of reserves very much on the
table. So, look out for that. After the
close, we talk about tech. Oracle
earnings coming up after the closing
bell. As this headline crosses right
here just moments ago, that Amazon is
kicking off an 11-part US investment
grade debt offering. We've seen this
from a number of tech companies,
including Alphabet, which offered a lot
of debt across a lot of maturities and a
lot of denominations and a lot of demand
came in. This feels like a different
moment to issue some of this debt.
>> We've already seen a number of issuances
pulled, more from the high-yield side
than the investment grade side. You have
seen spreads widen out. Will there be
the same demand because all of a sudden
this is the new haven, right? I mean,
this could go one of two ways. We could
see either people push back concerned
about the risk or suddenly all the fears
about AI have gone away and now that's
the ballast of any economic trajectory
going forward and people are going to
want to buy it. It'll be a great
barometer of sentiment.
>> It's an interesting test. I'll look out
for further headlines on how that deal
is going. Equity features pulling back
by some 2/10 of 1% on the S&P 500 as
those headlines cross. A quick sneak
peek at the price action across the
Nasdaq, the Russell, the S&P 500 is
shaping up as follows right now. On the
Nasdaq, we're down by about a tenth, so
that rolls over and the Russell's down
by about 0.5. Even with this move in the
commodity market, crude's still lower by
more than 7% 9140 WTI at about 88. We're
down 6% on the session there. You you
had the NFIB small business optimism
come in a little bit below expectations.
You've just seen on the margins some of
the economic data come in below
expectations following what we saw with
nonfarm payrolls. This all adds to the
feeling that maybe you can't get a Fed
that's going to be easing quite as
quickly and either way people are
reassessing whether that should shift
some of the risk appetite.
>> Payrolls was a shocker. Hardly talked
about it.
>> Hardly talked. We've had more redemption
requests and certain credit companies,
certain private credit firms struggling
to meet them. Shocker. Hardly talking
about it because at the moment we're
only talking about one thing, the energy
shock. But the energy shock contributes
to all of those things in negative ways,
and that's the problem about this
moment.
>> And even if you do end the conflict on
some level, people are saying that the
oil price will be reset at a higher
premium and already has been. So, that
has to be factored in.
>> And the Savannah this morning protecting
the flow of energy.
We're also focused on keeping
energy and oil flowing to the world.
And I will not allow a terrorist regime
to stop the globe's oil supply. Better
not play that game. In the long run, oil
supplies will be dramatically more
secure without the threat of Iranian
ships, drones, missiles, nuclear menace,
or anything. So, the Strait
of
Hormuz is going to
remain safe. So, here's the latest this
morning, Treasury yo-yo reversing course
as the president looks to calm oil
markets. Kathy Jones at Charles Schwab
writing this, if crude prices go up to
120 to 150 a barrel, then overall
inflation could rise by 50 basis points
or more. Kathy joins us now for more.
Kathy, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. What if we stay in the
'90s, in the '80s? How much does that
change the outlook for you and the team?
Uh not too much. I mean, I think one
scenario, and the scenario that the
market I has favored is this is a
short-term shock. It will pass as others
have passed. The Fed will look through
the price implications, and you know,
we'll go back to normal, uh whatever
normal is after this.
Um but, that risk appetite will come
back, and uh will Fed will be on hold
for a while, and you know,
possibly cut in the second half of the
year. But, I I think what's interesting
is the cross asset correlations that
we're seeing, or the unwinding of some
of those. So, as crude went up, yields
went up.
And it shows you that the market is very
attuned to the inflation end of things,
and not to the demand destruction that's
possible. That might reverse if prices
continue to go up even if inflation is
going up, it may be that the market
starts to focus on the recession risk
and not and not the inflation risk.
>> This is the tipping point I think we're
all interested in. Where is that tipping
point where this actually becomes bond
bullish and not bond bearish?
Yeah, I think it's hard to say but it's
it's where we see the potential for
recession, right? It
what point does the damage to the global
economy
and to the domestic economy which has
been pretty resilient but at what point
is that so much that we worry about
recession, employment, etc. And you
know, if a sustained move to 120 and
above I think the market starts to price
that in. I've read a number of notes
saying that on the margins the chance of
recession which had been completely off
the table earlier this year has gone up
just by virtue of a cycle inflationary
shock. Do you think that that's
accurately priced in the long end of the
yield curve?
No, I think that if we were to actually
get a recession the long end would rally
that yields would come down further.
The offset to that is we do have
inflation and we do have rising deficits
as far as the eye can see and so how do
you parse that out in the bond market?
Higher term premium perhaps but lower
overall yields because the Fed would
probably be leaning towards a dovish
stance. I'm just wondering how much this
curtails some of the other stories as
John was mentioning. We've been talking
about credit shocks in the private
markets. We've talked about concerns
around software debt in particular. The
leverage loan space has gotten hit. I'm
just wondering if you have higher
benchmark yields on the long end and you
have risk aversion causing a higher
premium. At what point does this create
fundamental stress in some of these
corporate names that already are kind of
on shaky ground? Yeah, I would say in
like the investment grade space, I don't
think that they're really at risk in
particular. Balance sheets are still
pretty good.
Management of the
you know, the interest rate risk is is
very solid. It's when you go down the
credit spectrum and in high yield which
is less junky than it used to be,
still the balance sheets are in pretty
good shape if the economy is growing. It
is in the leverage loan market
and in private credit where you start to
get concerned because that's where the
underwriting standards are weaker, the
companies are smaller, the credit
quality is lower and I think the
fundamental risk there is
what's the what's the exit strategy,
right? If the economy doesn't do well,
what's the exit strategy for those
companies? And if they run to the door,
if their investors run to the door,
that's where you create the stress in
the market.
>> For the bigger companies we've seen a
lot of supply met by tremendous demand.
We saw two headlines cross just moments
ago. Lisa and I were talking about that.
Amazon kicking off an 11-part US
investment grade debt offering. An
additional headline mandating banks for
an eight-part Eurobond offering in euros
as well.
Can you talk us through whether you
think that demand is going to be a
feature of this year or is this just a
moment that we're in? Or do you think
that this supply it's going to keep on
coming from these major players that
investors are willing to to meet that
with tremendous demand?
You know, I think the demand is there as
long as the global economy holds up. But
if I'm actually a little surprised at
the timing of this offer because there's
so much going on, but clearly they must
have an indication that the demand is
there and they can get the get this done
at at yields that are attractive to
them.
But I do think it gets the longer this
conflict goes on, the longer the risk is
to the global economy, not just the US
economy, the harder it is going to be to
absorb this without a wider spread.
>> So you surprised? Yeah, I am. I'm
actually
>> that have come to market right now.
>> Well, I'm looking right now at the
all-in yield for investment grade bonds
and it's 4.9%
plus or minus a couple basis points.
That's actually where it's been since
the end of December. So it actually
hasn't moved all that much. My question
is are they trying to get in before they
see even more stress? Do they see an
opening for something in terms of people
looking for haven trades and suddenly AI
which was a pariah is suddenly thought
of as a bastion. So people don't have
enough space in their heads to think
about AI as the real risk. So maybe
they're going to go into this head over
heels. There are a lot of questions
here. I do think that it will set the
tone for AI issuance for the year ahead
if they can get in clear this at a time
of a lot of potential volatility.
>> remember the Greenland crisis? Remember
that one?
>> Nope. Nope. Don't remember it. What a
strange year. And I I know look, I sound
like a broken record. Longest first
quarter in the history of first
quarters, but think about the different
shocks that we've had to confront over
the last two or three months. When it is
humdrum to say another record day on
this, that, or the other, it gives you a
sense of just how benumbed we have
become to the incredible news flow.
>> There was the Greenland crisis that
lasted a couple of days. We've had this,
the energy shock, the AI disruption, a
terrible payrolls report that hardly
anyone is talking about because it's all
been ignored given what's happening
elsewhere. Redemptions of private credit
firms and taking out Maduro in Caracas
feels like child's play for financial
markets at the moment.
>> that people talk about that is the clean
one. The one that actually was executed
cleanly without any consequences even
though there are some consequences which
are continuing. Kathy, good to see you.
Thanks for being here. As always, Kathy
Jones staff Charles Schwab on the
headlines in the bond market at the
moment. The notable one that's happening
just moments ago crossing the Bloomberg
that Amazon is kicking off an 11-part US
investment grade debt offering. In
addition to that, mandating banks as
well for an eight-part bond offering in
euros. Yeah, and at a time when
potentially people are worried about the
ECB hiking rates. Maybe the Amazon is uh
worried about the ECB hiking rates, too,
and they want to get in before that.
It's an odd moment, isn't it? It really
is a strange moment. Up next, we'll
catch up with Kevin Farley of JPMorgan,
Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen, Abigail Watt
of UPS, Jim Caron of Morgan Stanley. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
There is spectacular amounts of
volatility. It feels like we should kind
of sit on the sidelines for a moment
here.
>> The market is looking for just what the
off-ramp could be. This doesn't feel
like the beginning of a great year.
Eventually, that volatility will create
great buying opportunities.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Just about avoiding a third
day of losses on the S&P 500 yesterday
with a major bounce off the low into the
close. Futures right now negative again
by 2/10 of 1%. No positive
follow-through here on the Nasdaq just
about rolling over, underperforming the
Russell -0.5.
Following that wild ride in crude
yesterday, 119.50 at the high, in the
80s at the low. We're down another 7%
this morning. Brent at 91.94, WTI at 88.
On the agenda, on the calendar later on
this morning, moments away, there will
be a briefing from the Pentagon. We'll
track the headlines coming out of that
and catch up with Tyler Kendall in just
a moment. And later on this morning,
there will be a meeting between energy
ministers at the G7 level at a time when
we've been waiting for some kind of
reserve release from these countries.
>> 1:45 p.m. local time in France this
meeting is taking place. Will they come
to try to stave off some of the price
increases that we've seen for consumers?
Clearly there is the will to do so. To
answer your question, why haven't they
done so so far? And I think that's going
to be a really key point today.
>> You look at the shape of the curve, it's
an extreme backwardation right now. They
could meet this,
put out all that supply, issue those
reserves, and then just buy further out
along the curve. And that would make
sense. I know things aren't as
straightforward as that, but that would
be the thinking I think at their level
in this discussion.
>> Maybe. Let's hear what they have to say.
Honestly, I've just been shocked by how
idiosyncratic each type of oil is, where
you're going to be getting it from, and
how you can really do this in a way that
effectively lowers prices for average
consumers quickly. And I think that
that's the challenge right now that
they're trying to deal with.
>> There is nothing straightforward about
any of this, and we've seen the cuts to
output continue across the UAE, Kuwait,
Iraq, Saudi Arabia. 6.7 million barrels
a day now of output cuts that we're
estimating here at Bloomberg.
>> Those four nations account for about a
fifth of all oil supplies in this world.
Those cuts alone account for about 6%.
What I'm curious is how quickly they can
get these supplies back online. In other
words, even if this conflict were to end
now, how long will it take? And I think
that those are the questions that people
are analyzing to understand what some of
the scars could be. Brent crude down by
6 to 7% so far this morning, 92.40.
Coming up this hour, Kevin Foley of JP
Morgan with stocks seeking to sustain
momentum. Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen
cutting his outlook on the airliners.
And Abigail Watt of UBS looking ahead to
tomorrow's CPI print. We begin this hour
with stocks lower and crude falling on
hopes the war in Iran may be nearing an
end. Kevin Foley, the global head of
capital markets of JP Morgan Securities
writing, "Despite the move in oil
prices, most are taking an optimistic
view of the situation." Kevin joins us
now for more. Kevin, good morning. Good
morning, John. Are capital markets is
wide open?
They're very much open. You've seen a
number of deals launched this morning.
Um
we continue to see good demand out
there. There's been a rotation in terms
of where the interest is, but deals are
getting done. We're on the tape in both
investment grade, leverage finance, and
within equities all with issuance today.
We were somewhat surprised by this
headline coming from Amazon. I don't
know if you can speak to it directly,
but perhaps you can talk about it in
general terms. Kicking off an 11-part US
investment grade debt offering, there's
an issue in euros as well. The timing of
this, what are your thoughts on things?
Well, let let's look at investment grade
spreads since the announcement. We're
actually tighter. On a spread basis,
we're tighter since the announcement in
our end. We're only 14 basis points off
the all-time tights.
So, you're sub 100 basis points on a
spread basis for investment grade.
That's as attractive as it can be. Let
give you some context in when the
Ukraine happened in the start of
February '22,
spreads gapped out to 168 basis points
in high grade.
Again, we're 100 sub 100 basis points
right now.
You said there was a rotation going on.
Are these AI giants considered havens
more so now or less so now? Cuz I can't
keep track of the narrative. I think the
giants are still viewed as havens.
Um
they they're still a growth story there.
There is what you're alluding to is that
there's an AI disruption theme that's
out there, and it's more looking at that
second and third derivatives of who's
going to be negatively impacted. So, all
the business is going to benefit from AI
efficiencies,
and there but the data centers are still
key to this. The hyperscalers still are
key. The growth is assumed to be there,
and the CapEx spend is happening. You
talk to a lot of issuers, and it's
fascinating if you talk to market
participants, we've all seen the sky
fall about 15 times so far this year,
and it's just uh March. Now, I'm just
wondering why they've been so resilient
to some of the things that market
participants are worried about, whether
it's higher inflation, whether it's a
labor market that's cracking, whether
it's some of the disruption tied to AI
that could potentially lead to defaults.
Well, I guess there's the old adage,
market climb the wall of worry, but uh I
think it comes down to liquidity. Right,
when particularly when you look at the
debt markets, you look at the the
issuance that we've had over the past
couple years, we've very much been
recycling capital. 75-80% of the
activity that we've had over the past
couple years in the debt market has been
refinancing driven. We haven't had the
M&A boom in terms of needing financing
to fund all of that, lapping up that
liquidity. I think you still continue to
have a lot of cash in the system. You
look at the equity markets, you've had a
shrinking base of public companies. So,
that also it helps uh you know, shorten
the supply in terms of just keeping
demand strong. That might change this
year, Open AI, Anthropic, SpaceX. What's
your view of the next 12 months?
We're continuing to forecast 200 uh
billion of IPO issuance globally, and
which is up over 30% in the US. We think
it's 60 to 70 billion. There could be
upside. There is much uh
as you mentioned, there's rumors about
some other bigger size ones that could
be in there that could move that number
higher.
Obviously, if the situation in Iran
continues or escalates, that could
change that outlook right now. But right
now, we continue to feel good about the
rest of the year.
>> Kevin, what is it about the situation in
the Middle East that could upend that?
What is it about it specifically? Oil,
right? You were talking about it. Um I
think you had mentioned nothing
straightforward about it. The the
pressures there, right? It could
complicate from an inflation picture.
We continue to assume that the market
right now is got an 80% chance of two
cuts this year.
Actually, the JP Morgan research house
view is no cuts this year.
Does the pressure from oil pinch the
consumer?
Does it put inflationary pressure, keep
the Fed on hold? Does that somehow
derail the growth story? Are you seeing
any parts of the capital market
structure, any companies that are
feeling this more acutely, the threat of
some of what you just explained?
It's still too early, right? There's
The market is making bets about things
and making assumptions, whether you get
into the AI disruption story to impact
the bioenergy.
But we're not seeing signs of distress,
right? You know, it's I think your prior
guest mentioned about balance sheets
being healthy at a corporate level. We
continue to say see the same thing. You
mentioned that we haven't seen over the
past couple of years the level of M&A,
as well as IPOs that we have been
accustomed to. This was supposed to be
the year that we were going to get all
of these things, as John was alluding
to. Do you still think that that's
plausible, particularly on the M&A side?
We We touched on IPOs. Or do you think
that that's going to have to get pushed
back due to the sort of rolling cycle of
crises?
Well, I'll clarify my points on M&A. M&A
has been up, but it's been much more
with elevated stock prices and healthy
balance sheets. A lot of it has not
needed financing from the debt markets.
So, activity has been more muted in the
financing markets.
Yeah, the the M&A story still
everything's in place for it.
Um
but we've got to see how things play
out. We haven't written that here. This
isn't the year. But you're right, 2026
was supposed to be the year we were
going to go gangbusters in M&A and a lot
of pent-up demand. We still see activity
levels. We underwrote a deal last week
that got announced. We're continuing to
commit capital to things.
I We're not throwing in the towel about
that being still being a good year for
M&A.
But obviously, if things persist or
escalate, that could derail it. We saw
after Liberation Day, we saw a bit of
pause in activity and things really then
picked up in late July through the rest
of the year. So, we could see same
dynamics here. Just getting in a
important headline I want to bring you.
It comes from the UAE and I want to just
jump in and break this. This is the
largest refinery in the UAE. It has
stopped as a precaution following drone
attacks. That refinery has the capacity
to process about 900,000 barrels a day
of oil. So, that's serious business
there. It stopped as a precaution
following a drone attack. This goes back
to a theme we've discussed throughout
this morning so far. The hope
the hope that we can end this war
quickly, encouraged by the words of the
president in the last 24 hours, and the
facts on the ground. And we keep
tracking the facts on the ground right
now. And they're the kind of things that
speak to the kind of issues we've been
talking about for the last week. The
problem supplying this market right now
with crude
and oil product. And the problem being
in the United Arab Emirates right now,
the fact that this is again spreading
throughout the region also raises a
spectrum of uncertainty of what type of
response there could be. Is it going to
come on the part of people in the Middle
East withdrawing investments to try to
pressure an end to this, or is it going
to come from pressuring Iran to really
throw in the towel as well? I mean, all
honestly, there's so many variables
here. Kevin, can we get your thoughts
just to round things up on the Middle
East and sovereign wealth funds as a
pool and a source of capital for some of
the deals we've seen over the last few
years and the prospect of that being
threatened by these developments?
Well, there's two ways of looking at it.
And with the higher oil price, that
means there's going to be more
profits coming out of the Middle East.
So, there are actually going to be an
argument that there's going to be more
capital flowing into some of the Now, of
course, it depends on what your
production levels are. If you're getting
shut down from some of that stuff,
that's going to change the picture. But,
I go back to my earlier point about
liquidity in the overall markets.
We look across the entire system and
there's lots of liquidity. So, we're not
worried about capital disappearing and
certainly capital for investing.
But, yeah, I think that I look at a
broader economic concern with oil,
right? What does it do to the consumer?
What does it do do to inflation pressure
that uh give the flexibility to the Fed
to support what they want what the
market is expecting. Kevin, we're lucky
to have you with us this morning. Thank
you, sir. Great. Thank you.
>> very much. Kevin Folta there of JP
Morgan tracking a number of things
including that headline that just
crossed. Also tracking a briefing at the
Pentagon. Bloomberg's Taylor Collings
has been following that. Taylor joins us
for more. Hey, Taylor.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the
Pentagon briefing is ongoing, but we've
heard so far from the Defense Secretary
Pete Hegseth saying that the US will
quote not relent in its operations
against Iran until full US military
objectives are achieved. He reiterated
that those include the US dismantling
Iran's ballistic missile program as well
as the industrial base that creates
those missiles, destroying Iran's navy,
and making sure that Iran will never be
able to achieve a nuclear weapon. He
then added that the mission would quote
happen on the US's timeline, adding
today that we will see more intense
bombardment. Pair this with recent
comments this morning that we've been
discussing on the program coming from
Iran including Iran's Parliament speaker
saying that the country is quote
absolutely not seeking a ceasefire.
We'll continue to monitor these
developments, John, but I will quickly
mention we're also looking to see
whether or not the Pentagon outlines any
additional details about it seeking a
supplemental funding package from the US
Congress amid reports coming from the
Washington Post this morning that the US
spent $5.6 billion in weapon stockpiles
in the first 2 days of this conflict.
>> It's nice to have you with us, Taylor.
Keep tracking that for us, won't you?
Stay close. Taylor Collings there of
Bloomberg tracking a briefing from the
Pentagon ongoing. We'll keep bringing
you the headlines from that. We'll bring
you the headlines as well from what's
happening on the ground in the Middle
East. So, as the Defense Secretary Pete
Hegseth says that today will be the most
intense day of strikes and we're seeing
headlines that back that up. We're also
seeing this headline coming out of the
UAE from the country's largest refiner,
that they've had to stop as a precaution
following a drone attack. We'll wait to
see how quickly they can restart, but
ultimately, that's a unit
a unit that can process 900,000 barrels
of oil every single day. This is real
output being taken out.
>> Yeah, and from the Abu Dhabi
authorities, the post that they put on
X, I thought was really telling. They
said that they were responding to this
fire, no injuries have been reported at
this time, and then they added this,
"The public was reminded to obtain
information from official sources only
and to avoid spreading rumors." To me,
this indicates just how much people feel
in the dark and how difficult it is to
get accurate information on the ground
about what seems to be a very quickly
moving story.
>> Futures this morning just backing off
with down by about a third of 1% on the
S&P 500. Up next on the program, The
Morning Call's plus Tom Fitzgerald of TD
Cowen cutting his outlook on the
airlines a sector that has been beaten
up big time over the last week. That
conversation up next. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
The opportunities are there when you
have a market that's swinging 20, 25, 30
dollars a barrel, you have to keep your
stops extremely short, your positions
extremely small to get in and to get
out. We've had a lot of upheaval in
these markets over the last two
generations. We've never seen anything
like this.
That was Steven Schurr of The Schurr
Group weighing in on the energy crisis
developing in the Middle East and
another headline reinforcing just how
brutal things are on the ground right
now. This from the UAE, the largest
refinery stopping as a precaution
following a drone attack. That refinery
with the capacity to process 900,000
barrels of crude a day. That's an
important development. We'll keep
tracking that. Also this came a little
bit earlier, came from Amazon. The
timing's interesting. They're kicking
off an 11-part US investment grade debt
offering. We understand they're
targeting 25 to 30 billion in dollar
bonds and also 10 billion euros in the
euro offering at the same time. That
headline just crossing moments ago.
Listen, Kevin Foley, who is the head of
capital markets at JP Morgan, just said
that capital markets are very much open
and that tech giants are still havens.
So at a time when you haven't seen
spreads materially widen out and people
are looking for havens, the promise of
all of the AI bots that are going to
fill your rooms with all sorts of new
information and purpose, clearly seems
like something people want to get
behind.
>> We'll keep tracking that. The issues
have come over the last number of months
including from Alphabet and they've been
met with tremendous demand. The number
25 to 30 billion dollars in dollar bonds
from Amazon, 10 billion euros in euro
bonds in euros. That offering coming a
little bit later. That's the price
action and some of the headlines. Let's
get to your morning calls. First up,
Bank of America reinstating Qualcomm at
underperform citing lukewarm growth
prospects. Elsewhere, Baird lowering its
price target on Oracle ahead of earnings
this afternoon. The analyst is looking
for details on AI infrastructure. And
finally, Morgan Stanley upgrading
CrowdStrike to overweight saying the
firm is well positioned to outperform in
the coming years. That stock is up in
the premarket by about 2%. Elsewhere,
airline stocks have been falling as oil
prices rise due to the war in Iran. Tom
Fitzgerald of TD Cowen cutting his price
target on the major carriers writing,
"We assume the airlines are able to
recapture a portion of the spike in fuel
prices, but it's hard to envision margin
expansion this year buying a rapid
decline in energy prices. Tom joins us
now for more. Tom, welcome to the show.
Which airline right now do you think is
the most exposed?
I would say probably either American
Airlines or JetBlue or or Alaska. All
three of those airlines have a little
bit more sensitivity in their model to
to fuel prices for various reasons.
And Delta? Where do they fit in here?
They they're probably they have the the
most buffer cuz they remember they own
the refinery in Pennsylvania. So that
provides an operational hedge. Back you
look back in 2022 when there was the
fuel spike around Russia-Ukraine, over
the full year the refinery provided
about almost a quarter of a cent of um
um of a reduction on their average price
paid per gallon of fuel for the year. So
it it you know, they're not it doesn't
bail them out, but it certainly helps in
an environment like this.
>> We've had this conversation 50,000
different times. Why is Delta so much
better at this than everybody else?
They play the long game.
Um you know, they're not afraid to buck
consensus. When they bought the
refinery, they bought kind of I want to
say late 2012, so it was viewed as kind
of missing the market at that point in
time, but you know,
you you hang around it's like fashion
you hang around long enough eventually
comes back into style. 2022 was good to
have the refinery. This year was good to
have the refinery. They're very focused
on building durability into the model in
in every which way, so not surprising
for them. Having a refinery seems to be
the hedge of choice for Delta. How many
of the other airlines are actually
hedged against oil price fluctuations?
None of the US airlines are. Air Canada
hedged about just a little under 20% of
their first half consumption. The the
thing US carriers found was the hedges
it was great in a in a
during the fuel spike year, but they
often often ended up losing money when
when fuel prices declined. And it was
advantageous to have everybody pricing
on the same cost curve and just trying
to manage um you know,
not just sitting idly back and and
actually working to pass on their input
cost to to the end markets. When we talk
about the airline industry, Tom, we're
talking about a twofold hit here. On one
hand, appetite to travel amid
uncertainty. On the other hand, a
question about how much higher oil
prices are going to eat into margins.
Which do you think is the main driver
right now of the price action?
Right now, it's fuel. I mean, I I think
if you if there was any signs of demand
destruction, it on top of elevated fuel,
you'd see much more
I think you'd see much more weakness in
the share. But just just at a high
level, if you think about when airlines
were issuing guidance back in
mid-January, the fuel prices in the
forward curves were around, you know,
call it 230, 240 a gallon, depending on
your estimates and which curve you
looked at. Today, those those curves are
all about, you know, above $3 for the
rest of the year, maybe a little bit
under three now with the easing we've
seen overnight, but still a pretty
meaningful delta if you have that type
of going from, you know, 230 to 240 to
closer to $3 per gallon for a line item
that's about 20 points of margin. You
you can't sweep that under the rug. And
tell me, it's a big market, there's
space for different views. Here's a
different view. It comes from Bank of
America. While the focus is on fuel
prices in the near term, we know US
travel demand appears favorable as the
industry heads into the peak spring
break travel period and set against
lower industry capacity growth. What's
the counterpoint, Tom, to that this
morning?
I don't I don't know if I necessarily
disagree. I mean, I kept my buy ratings
on these names, especially the big
airlines that I still think you'd want
to own them and that the a lot of
investors are under-owned overall. If
you think about how much how much
improvement has happened in this
industry on a fundamental basis versus
today and versus pre-COVID. I I I I just
think I don't know. The The issue I
grapple with is numbers are probably
still a little bit too high, especially
1Q, possibly 2Q. So,
um I I don't disagree with you saying
the same strength in demand, but it's
there's a lot more uncertainty now
in where margins settle out, just given
we don't know where fuel is going to
settle out. We don't know if there's any
impact from higher gasoline prices.
Um so, it seemed prudent to take down
numbers a little bit, even though I
don't disagree that it's probably a good
entry point for the stocks longer term.
>> Well, as you indicate, Tom, that's a
massively important variable. The thing
we're wrestling with, the thing we're
grappling with on a daily basis right
now, is that anxiety around the labor
market seems pretty high at the moment.
At the same time, you're going to get
tax refunds, and we're trying to figure
out where the refunds are actually going
to go. Will they buy that flight? Will
they take that trip? Or will they just
save that money?
I think, you know, pre prior to the last
week, we were going in expecting that
they'd be, you know, booking the flight,
booking the cruise, spending it on
discretionary services.
This kind of raises a new wild card.
We'll see. I I think, and maybe we have
more of a keeping up appearances some
spending surge this summer. And then it
pays off more later on in the year, but
I think, you know, all the signs of
demand have been pretty encouraging this
fall thus far, and travel demand has
been resilient, so knock on wood, I
think. And part of that is because it's
the upper part of the K. One of the
things that's driven the margins at the
likes of United and Delta has been
international travel. I mean, this is
something we haven't talked about yet.
The international travel could get
disrupted based on the Middle East hubs
that have been seriously impacted. Are
you seeing any fallout from that that
you think has longer legs?
Not at least not for the US airlines. In
fact, United noted that they've seen a
lot huge uptick in passengers from
Australia, New Zealand flying to Europe
and connecting to the US now instead of
connecting through the Gulf. So so
that's an interesting positive
incremental. I think it's too soon to
say on bookings. Our early checks have
been that they haven't seen a big
any kind of any fall off in in US
outbound demand, but
obviously if the situation worsened or
there was, you know, consumer discomfort
or
on traveling into that part of the
world,
into the Mediterranean, maybe you'd see
a little bit of fall off, but I don't
think anything to worry about thus far.
It feels like this group is at the
epicenter of crisis after crisis,
whether it's what we saw in 2020 with
the pandemic, whether it was 2022 in
Europe, or whether it's what's were
happening right now. how much more
resilient are the balance sheets now
than it say 2019?
It it varies carrier to carrier. Delta,
United, and Southwest have the best
balance sheets among the group. American
and JetBlue are the most levered. That's
also partly why they're they're they
take a little bit more of a hit and on
these spikes of fuel cuz they don't have
as much cushion.
Um so so yeah, so it it varies carrier
to carrier and that's been part of the
bull thesis, especially for Delta and
United, is that the the balance sheet
resilience should give um equity
investors more comfort that they can
withstand a downturn, that they don't
have to dilute shareholders whenever the
next crisis hits. Tom, it's good to see
you. Thanks for jumping on. Tom
Fitzgerald there of TD Cowen. Out of all
the airlines, it would be Delta with the
trainer refinery over in a over in
Pennsylvania. That's a very pure play in
terms of a hedge rather than just buying
hedges. It's just absolutely ridiculous.
They just keep executing so well
compared to everybody else. The facts on
the ground, we keep talking about the
facts on the ground right now.
Chancellor Merkel of Germany saying
they're concerned at the apparent lack
of a plan on how to end the war with
Iran. Just compare that reality check to
the hope that this market has
given the encouragement they've had from
the president of the United States on
the US's ability to end this soon.
It's a very different take coming out of
Europe this morning. Out of Europe as
well as on the ground in the UAE where
there's discussion of a fire near a
refinery that accounts for a significant
part of the
point of their oil. Coming up on the
program, Abigail Wozniak looking ahead
to tomorrow's must-watch CPI print.
Some notable headlines in financial
markets. The number one in the Middle
East, the UAE, was dealing with a fire
earlier on this morning following a
drone strike. And we saw this headline
cross just moments ago that the largest
refinery has stopped as a precaution
following that drone attack. That
refinery has the ability, the capacity
to process some 900,000 barrels of oil
per day.
And as for oil production, we've seen
those cuts across the UAE, Kuwait, Iraq,
Saudi Arabia total close to 7 million
barrels of oil per day.
That's a problem right now. It's a
problem for access to energy and
ultimately a problem for the price of
energy as well. Even with the
encouragement from the president of the
United States more recently that they
can end this war and end this war
quickly. The price action looks like
this. Brent crude is down by about 5%.
So, off-session lows. Brent at the
moment at about 9380. WTI around 91.
That's the commodity market and the
equity market equity futures negative by
4/10 of 1% on the S&P 500. And if you
want a headline from the credit market,
corporate credit, it's this one right
here. Even in this moment, as we've
heard a few times and Lisa said it
herself, investment grade credit spreads
right now are still pretty tight. And
Amazon is kicking off an 11 part US
investment grade debt offering this
morning. Also, an eight part offering in
euros. And those numbers sound like
this. 25 to 30 billion dollars in dollar
bonds and 10 billion euros in the euro
offering. Yeah, last time around their
bond issuance was over subscribed many,
many times. A lot of people seem to
think, based on the notes that I've been
getting, that this will be similar
because this is ultimately a haven play.
If you take a look at all-in yields for
investment grade bonds, it's 4.87%.
That's the all-in yield. That's down
from a recent high in April during the
whole question of liberation day of 5
and 1/2%. So, you are seeing pretty
suppressed benchmark borrowing costs
even amid this crisis.
>> Someone we both follow and follow
closely, Robert Schiffman of Bloomberg
Intelligence, leads our credit team here
at Bloomberg. Just a headline of his
piece he just published. Amazon huge
bond deal to draw massive demand. And
that really sums things up and we've
seen that a few times including from
Alphabet and others. As we count you
down to the opening bell, about 60
minutes away, let's get you some morning
movers, some single names. Dani Burger
has more. Hey, Dani. Hey, John. Starting
you off with some sell-side action. Bank
of America reinstating Qualcomm at an
underperform, pointing to the tepid
growth of the smartphone market, plus
high memory costs. All of that adding to
what they say is some lackluster
performance coming from the company.
Shares are down 2.9% or 2.8% rather
following that downgrade. And then we
had an upgrade from TD Cowen on Rivian.
Shares moving higher in the pre-market
by 4.6% after that. TD Cowen saying that
their new SUV, the R2, is surely going
to have a lot of demand. They're
optimistic about that. And the level of
demand they're already seeing out there
means that there is an upside to the
2027 assumption for Rivian. Finally, I
want to get a check on some of the oil
companies that have been whipsawed with
the oil action. Uh the they have been
moving down steadily. Now it's picking
up some steam, especially uh for
Occidental Petroleum. Those shares are
down 2.9% with a decline in oil prices,
a little bit more tepid for Chevron and
Devon, but still all of them falling in
sympathy with oil prices this morning,
John. Dani, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Looking forward to the program.
Dani Burger and Matt Miller taking over
in about 27 minutes time to guide you
into the opening bell. For this market,
some optimism building in the last 24
hours. An end to the war.
On Iran, you called it an excursion. You
said it would be over soon. Are you
thinking this week it will be over?
You're talking about days.
>> I think so.
>> Okay. And And with respect to the
>> Look,
everything they have is gone, including
their leadership.
In fact, they're two levels of
leadership, and even actually, as it
turns out, more than that. But two
levels of leadership are gone. The
president's comments whipsawing crude
oil, seeing its biggest intraday swing
on record in yesterday's trade.
Bloomberg's Mike McKee joins us now for
more. Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. Well, it's very
difficult to figure out where the
economy is going to end up because we
don't know actually when this war is
going to end despite what the president
says and we don't know when oil prices
will come down if they do. They are
still high compared to where we were
back in February and that's going to
cause a lot of confusion and much is
going to depend on the timing of this
all. Now, the impact on the economy you
can sort of quantify if you leave out
the time piece. We have gotten a lot
more efficient with energy so the impact
on GDP is a lot smaller. You've heard
the stagflation talk but instead of the
kind of impacts we had in the 1970s of a
half percent to 1% in terms of GDP now
it's only a tenth of a percent, maybe
two tenths of a percent in a quarter and
remember this war started in the third
month of the first quarter. So there
probably won't be much effect at all. We
use a lot less energy to produce the
amounts of electricity and power that we
get and we still are the world's largest
petroleum producer. So we still have
plenty of energy. It's just that it's a
globally traded commodity so the price
goes that way. Who gets hurt? Now this
is not a stock prediction. That's Danny
Burgers job but in terms of how it
filters into the economy, the airlines
and trucking really going to feel it
first because they've got to buy jet
fuel and diesel and those have gone up
in price and because trucking is more
expensive you're going to see some
prices tacked on raised at retail level.
Restaurants also they get a lot of
deliveries and food prices that are
going to go up because of imports and
then you get into the things like the
chemical business they use a lot of
petroleum plastics the same and so down
the road a month or two we could see an
impact on all of those companies. The
positives despite what Danny said just a
minute ago, oil producers and oil field
service companies because they get the
direct benefits of the the prices and
ordinarily you would say renewables, uh
solar energy, wind energy, but the
president is trying to kill those. So,
they're not going to gain as much.
Sum it all up, and what do we think?
Well, we just don't know. And that is uh
demonstrated by the December Fed funds
futures contract because it that's
supposed to price in where we are at the
end of the year, and it has been very
volatile. As you can see, it was going
uh up. We were looking at no moves at
all. Then all of a sudden, went down
when the president said we might uh end
the war soon, and now it's back up again
today. People are still thinking that we
might see uh some reason for at least
holding the entire year. Mike McKay,
thank you, sir, with the update. And of
course, the story far more important
elsewhere to the Europeans and to the
others. We've seen big moves at the
front end of the UK curve, particularly
in yesterday's session. Erase some of
that, but the sense is that they are way
more sensitive to these moves than maybe
the Federal Reserve is. They're a lot
more exposed in terms of the region to
uh Middle East energy supplies, as well
as frankly, single mandate central banks
that have a much more direct
pass-through from some of the higher
energy prices into what consumers pay,
and frankly, into inflation.
>> Yields are lower in the UK this morning.
We're down by about five on 10s, on
twos, we're down by close to eight.
Abigail, what does UBS write in this
this morning? Energy prices pose a
near-term headwind to real consumer
spending. The oil price shock is a more
two-sided risk for monetary policy
rather than is perhaps appreciated.
Abigail joins us now for more. Abigail,
good to good to see you, and good
morning. Good morning. What did you mean
by that last slide?
So, I think if we if we think about the
the repricing we saw off the back of the
increase in oil prices in bond markets,
and and expectations around easing from
the Fed this year, I think you saw
obviously a clear focus on the
inflationary impact of the oil price
increase. And I think perhaps what's
under appreciated is that this is coming
alongside a point where the labor market
looks a little vulnerable at this
juncture still.
Um and you're also it's also coming
alongside potential growth hits, right?
Like this is something that could hit uh
real spending, which is 2/3 of the US
economy. So, I I think perhaps the the
the point around risk to rates being
more two-sided is this idea that it
could come at a juncture where the labor
market's already looking relatively
vulnerable um and the inflation shock,
you know, it will depend on the
persistence of the increase in prices.
>> This is something we've been exploring
all morning. We talked to Kathy Jones
about it. At some point there's a
tipping point. This starts to become
bullish for bonds because of the
potential output hit that we could see
from higher energy prices. How close do
you think we are to that tipping point?
I think this is one element of the
consumer story, right? I think one of
the things you've got to think about is
the the kind of other drivers that we
had for the the kind of strength that we
were expecting from the consumer this
year, right? We're expecting that you
see a strong tax refund season. Tax
refunds are up um 10% in the latest IRS
data on an average basis. That's a
little bit behind, I think, kind of some
expectations of of the fiscal stimulus,
but that's another thing that should
prove potentially supportive of
household balance sheets. And if we
think about kind of how this feeds
through to household balance sheets as
well, I think it's um the the kind of
everyone outside the top 20% of the kind
of income distribution potentially
that's going to wear this kind of more.
So, I think you've got to weigh
potential kind of positive headwinds uh
positive tailwinds for the consumer
versus some of the the kind of negative
impacts potentially from higher oil
prices. Um so, I think it will depend on
how those kind of play out in the next
in the next couple of uh weeks and
months. And I think the key thing here
with all of the the kind of potential
impacts for the economy from the oil
price increase is really the extent and
the persistence of that increase in oil
prices. And that's I think that's what's
going to be key in terms of how this
feeds into kind of growth and also into
inflation. One of the tailwinds has also
been the idea of rate cuts. How much is
there momentum in the consumer,
particularly at the lower end, should
the Fed remain on hold?
Yeah, so I mean in our expectations,
we've got 50 basis points of cuts from
the FOMC this year. And in terms of the
timing of that, we think it's
potentially kind of second half, so
July-October.
I think at the margin, that easing in
interest rates is something that is
supportive and helpful for the consumer,
but that would in theory bring, you
know, interest rates back round to
around neutral. It doesn't necessarily
outright stimulate the economy at this
point. I think for us, when we're
thinking about the kind of resilience in
the the potential strength of the
consumer, I think that fiscal story is
actually potentially the more important
part of the the kind of outlook this
year for the consumer, rather than
necessarily the kind of tailwind from
monetary policy easing. We've been
talking about how that fiscal tailwind
could potentially be absorbed by higher
oil prices. How do you sort of weigh
where oil prices are versus that fiscal
boost that people were expecting?
Yeah, so I think it's I think it's
probably one of the key things to be
thinking about at this juncture. I think
as I said, I think the the kind of
persistence and the increase in in kind
of oil prices will be important. We've
obviously already seen gasoline prices
rising, and the consumer in the US is
incredibly sensitive to higher gasoline
prices. So I do think, you know, there
is a potential that some of the positive
kind of tailwinds we were expecting from
fiscal policy could be offset. In
particular, for those lower-income
consumers, where you know, you are
seeing the fact that savings are running
kind of below average. Um, you know,
they've they've kind of spent down any
excess savings that have been built up,
and I think, you know, that's the area
where I would think that you would feel
that kind of gas price increase most
acutely in the consumer.
>> Mike McKee was talking about where Fed
fund futures were trading right now.
What's your Fed bet for you and the
team?
So we're expecting the
Fed deliver 50 basis points cuts this
year, right?
I think the risk, if we're thinking
about the distribution around that, I
think, you know, potentially if you see
kind of more of a growth hit, if you see
this kind of labor market vulnerability
persisting,
I think that you could potentially see
the risk that rate cuts come come sooner
than we're expecting.
And then I think, you know, if we think
about the the kind of risks on the
opposite side, you know, the potential
for risk for rates coming later and them
holding longer, I think that's really
going to depend on what we see in the
inflation data. Obviously, we'll get the
February CPI this week. We're expecting
that you see a slowing in terms of the
monthly prints there, but we do think
that will be the low point for the CPI
this year. So, you know, we're expecting
that that pushes higher and we see
inflation peaking in the second
>> Independent of what happens in the
Middle East that that's the low for this
year?
Yes, so that was our profile previously
as well because I mean, we're still
seeing that tariff pass-through coming
through. I mean, you are seeing kind of
elevated core goods price increases even
if you are seeing a little bit better
inflation on the services side.
>> call for 50 basis points, is that a call
based on the economy or the man who's
going to be the Fed chair?
So, it's based on the idea that, you
know, if we think about when we're
thinking we see inflation peaking, we do
think that the run rates of inflation
will begin to peak in the second
quarter. And I think at that point as
well, we're expecting the labor market
still looks vulnerable. We have the
unemployment rate pushing higher from
here for to 4.5 or 6 by the by by the
summer. So, I think with that dynamic, I
think that's a point at which in July
you should see kind of enough inflation
progress for them to think, "Okay, we
should remove a little bit of that
excess restrictiveness."
>> Got it. Abigail, good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down. Thank you. Abigail
Waltzer of UBS. So, we see unemployment
climbing through the summer potentially
and into the midterms. Ultimately, it's
going to be the political framework
there. That's not great reading. Won't
be great for the administration to hear
and won't be great to see if that's how
it plays out.
>> Especially after what we got with
jobless with the job report that we got
on Friday which seemed to confirm that.
I do wonder how important CPI and core
PCE are going to be this week given you
need to see that progress on inflation
to allow this to happen.
>> Brent crude this morning is down by 6%
we're at 93. WTI's down by about five,
we're at 90 so far this morning. Up next
we'll set you up for the day ahead plus
Jim Caron of Morgan Stanley joins us
remaining confident the markets can get
back on the right track. That
conversation just around the corner from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Today will be yet again
our most intense day of strikes inside
Iran. The last 24 hours have seen Iran
fire the lowest number of missiles
they've been capable of firing. We will
not relent until the enemy is totally
and decisively defeated.
>> That was the defense secretary in a
briefing of the Pentagon just moments
ago Wankin on the facts on the ground
and where the operation currently stands
as many of you would call it and where
the war currently stands. In the
commodity market this is how the price
of things is shaping up right now. Brent
crude is down by 7% WTI's down by six.
The facts on the ground drones
projectiles still being thrown into Gulf
nations from Iran and it's doing damage
and we see that in the UAE
intercepting at least attempting to a
series of drones and missiles once again
today one hitting the biggest refinery
in the country. They've had to stop as a
precaution. We talked about the size of
that the capacity to process 900,000
barrels of oil per day. A lot of energy
production and output is being taken out
in this region. Yeah, we've gotten
already 6% of the output taken off. The
6% of the output in the world, right? I
mean this is a 6.7 million barrels from
four nations of 20 million barrels per
day that is produced. This is a crucial
area of oil production for the world.
When do we start talking about the
fundamentals of what's being taken
offline and how long it's going to take
to put it back on? Until we get a
timeline, we can't even go there and I
think that that is the level of
uncertainty we have.
>> Some vicious volatile moves in global
markets in the last 24 hours as we count
you down to the opening bell, the start
of another one. It's about 42 minutes
away. Here's the trading diary for the
week ahead. After the market close,
earnings from Oracle, look out for that
tomorrow. CPI data, plus we'll hear from
the Fed vice chair of supervision,
Randal Quarles, on Thursday. Dollar
General earnings, the US trade balance,
and another round of jobless claims on
Friday. Core PCE and U Mich consumer
sentiment. For stocks, they're searching
for direction as President Trump signals
the war in Iran might be nearing its
end. Jim Caron of Morgan Stanley
writing, "Our base case remains the
strong fundamental underpinnings in the
economy plus easier fiscal policies will
allow for prices to resume higher." Jim
joins us now for more. Jim, good
morning. Good morning.
>> Still constructive? I am still
constructive. It's not going to be as
easy as it sounds though. I don't think
it's going to be a straight line. I
think that we do have to recognize what
the initial conditions in the markets
were prior to the event of the war and
what they might be coming out of it.
Look, in my career I've experienced
three of these. This is my third one.
The first one in the early 1990s, Gulf
War I. Gulf War II, early 2000s and and
and here we are again. Each one of these
events absolutely caused volatility, but
the difference between this one and the
last two was that the initial conditions
coming into the markets today with a lot
of fiscal stimulus, we have a lot of tax
refunds coming in.
We have relatively low interest rates. I
think inflation obviously is under
pressure right now, but it was headed
down. Jobs data, confidence data, a lot
of things were going right and I do
think that we will be able to put this
behind us at some point. The question is
how long will this all last because I
think the duration is a big point. Um
what if anything breaks and how long
will it take to repair and that's really
what the risk is. Are you seeing
anything break?
Well, I mean I think we're seeing signs,
right? So so the way that I I I look at
this is that there are three basic risks
that are out there. The first one is
correlation risk. So first of all and
the second one's liquidity and the and
the third is contagion. So So the
correlation risk right now is that
you're having equity prices come down
and you're having bond prices come down.
So there's no place to really hedge
yourself and that creates a scary
situation in markets. But liquidity is
still functioning relatively well in
markets. Markets are functioning well
based on repo markets and and things
like that. And contagion, we're not
really seeing this become a broad-based
you know, wave of defaults coming
through the markets because of this
energy shock. So I think there are two
out of these three reasons, you know,
the liquidity and the contagion
component are are okay for right now.
The correlation risk though is is is
relatively high. And we've seen some
pretty big losses being reported at
least by Bloomberg in terms of certain
hedge funds in particular. Uh Bloomberg
reporting Millennium, Baupost, Point72
among them. Are you seeing forced sales
that are opportunities to really get in
there? Well, see that's what we're
looking at, right? So so we came into
this uh relatively well balanced in our
portfolios, somewhat you know, high
quality and defensive. So for us this is
actually not been as big of a shock to
our particular management in our
portfolios. So we are looking from my
perspective, we are looking at
opportunities to find dislocations in
the markets to add to some of the themes
that we really like. Cyclical broadening
in the markets one of those. So and
that's and that's what we're doing.
>> So at what point does cyclical
broadening get challenged by higher oil
prices and a potentially weaker growth
outlook?
>> Listen, that's a great question. So so
what what we see right now is that
there's an inflation shock hitting the
marketplace, right? That's why bond
yields are moving higher and equity
prices are going down. Um the risk is is
when does this inflation shock translate
into a growth scare and when does it
start to really impact growth? That's
when the cyclical broadening trade will
start to get challenged because cyclical
broadening really means small caps and
mid caps relative to large caps. That's
usually what does well. That's what was
working prior to this event. So does do
do we get back into that right now? And
that's what we have to ask.
>> Why do you think it hasn't already been
challenged by the fact that we've reset
oil prices higher and potentially put
the Fed on hold for a longer period of
time?
>> Yeah. So the reason I the reason I I
think that is when we look at oil
prices, I don't think they're going back
down to where they were. I think that
they're going to settle at a higher
level than where they were. So if you're
looking at Brent, you know, we're not
looking at $70 Brent going forward.
We're probably looking at best case
scenario somewhere around like 80, I
think for this year.
Um so I don't think that the shock just
goes away, right? I think that we've
we're taking the growth hit. We are
going to get that. We are taking
probably higher inflation right now. The
market's repricing for this. So the
question is is where is the market
repricing and where is that overshooting
and does it actually give us an
opportunity to enter? And and we think
that there are some selective
opportunities where we can get involved.
And I I don't think that we tip
ourselves into a recession necessarily.
Now clearly anything can happen and
we'll react to it, but for right now we
think that this is still um
volatility in markets that we can take
advantage of. What are the openings
right now? You call them dislocations.
We're single digits away from all-time
highs on the S&P, but where are the
openings?
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, and that's what we
debate, right? You know, as we're
sitting here saying, well, you know, we
do want to buy something relatively
cheap, but nothing's really cheapened a
whole lot. But you know what, John,
that's actually a relatively strong sign
for the markets. That the markets aren't
willing to really take this out. Now
some people will say, oh, the markets
are completely missing this. I I don't
believe the markets are that dumb. I
think the markets are pretty smart. I
think it really depends where you are.
So, the cyclical broadening theme I
still think is a very strong theme. I
think a lot of the technology sector has
already come in relatively weak and and
relatively well discounted going into
this. So, it's not like we came in to
this event where everybody was way over
bought, way over long at the moment. So,
I I think we have to be a little bit
less emotional and we have to think
through the valuations and and and where
the opportunities are. And where And And
to your point, we're not seeing
screaming buys at this point. So, we're
being slow, but we are starting to add.
Jim, it's good to see you. Jim Caron of
Morgan Stanley Investment Management
still constructive on this market and
seeing the ability to add as we get
these dips. And they are small dips in
the grand scheme of things. They are
small dips, but he's not alone. A lot of
people saying this is a good
opportunity, especially as it does seem
like people are looking for off-ramps.
Equities right now on the S&P negative
by about a tenth of 1%. Going into the
up and down. The president seemingly
sending the signal that maybe he's
looking for an off-ramp and capping the
advance on crude. Crude this morning
down by 7% 9230, 8940 on WTI. We've
talked continuously this morning about
the hope that we can take that off-ramp,
establish one, and go down it. And the
reality on the ground and the facts on
the ground are still deeply deeply
concerning.
>> This morning there are reports of a fire
at a UAE or near an UAE refinery. Very
much concerning. We'll continue to
monitor this and figure out whether
people come to more of an off-ramp.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Frances Donald of
RBC, Lisa Shalett of Morgan Stanley,
Jeff Currie of Carlyle, and the former
St. Louis Fed president Jim Bullard.
From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Stay safe. We'll see you
tomorrow. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.